THE BASIC BASIS FOR ASSEMBLING A SUMMER DRESS USING THE COMPASS COMPUTER PROGRAM
In the era of computer technology, machine graphics are widely used in the economy, Electronics, Mechanical Engineering, and Information Technology. 
Automatic design system-not only simplifies labor, but also increases the efficiency of the design process. 
Machine graphics not only provide faster execution of drawings, increased accuracy, and increased drawing quality, but also allow you to use drawings repeatedly. 
This article provides a brief description of such computer programs as NanoCad, Valentina, "Zakroyshchik", Optitex 11, Compass, Redcafe, and highlights their advantages and disadvantages. 
These programs are designed for the construction of models of various types of sewing products. 
The Compass system is equipped with tools that allow the user to easily enter and correct the object. 
The formula for the calculation of the model of a summer dress is given. 
With the help of the Compass program, a basic model for creating a summer dress is created. 
A photo of the finished product is shown.
Key words: Computer Technology, Computer Program, machine graphics, drawing, sewing products, basic dress pattern.
Currently, there are quite a lot of computer programs for cutting and modeling clothing models, such as NanoCad, Valentina, "Zakroyshchik", Optitex 11, Compass, Redcafe. 
A computer program is a sequence of data intended to control specific components of a Data Processing System (Computer) in order to implement a certain algorithm, or an ordered sequence of commands that must be executed (processed), a set of sentences of a programming language describing the problem Generation Algorithm [1]. 
It is an ordered sequence of computer commands (instructions) written in accordance with the accepted syntax, designed to generate a report, as well as solve a given problem. 
In addition, it is a common name for programs and their fragments, subroutines, procedures, program modules, machine programs and their fragments [2]. 
Overview of computer programs for drawing up a drawing of the base of the shirt design. 
Nanocad (NanoCAD). 
In this program, you can create patterns that are designed as images for cutting and modeling clothing. 
NanoCAD is a Computer-Aided Design System program. 
The disadvantage of this program is that each new model must be created anew for each human body (a new customer). 
It is not possible to enter and store its own fomule during assembly. 
The most convenient thing about the program is that we can easily reproduce our own drawing and then simulate the pattern in the program. [3] 
Valentina (Valentina). 
Designed to create sample bases based on the Valentina program. 
It does not have the ability to simulate, it has the ability to create parametric lectures. 
Although drawing a sample is difficult, it will be enough if you draw it once [4]. 
Redcafe. This program is very interesting for amateur tailors who are just starting to sew. 
When working with the program, you can also not load the template at all. 
It shows the main templates that can be modeled and modified. 
You can also download the Burda magazine template database. 
This base is called an addon. 
Once we have established these basics, we can open any of the models of log releases offered in the program. 
Redcafe is a professional computer program for automating cutting and modeling clothing models. 
The program is uniquely known for its simplicity and capabilities (a computer-aided design system for clothing). [5] 
Program "zakroyschik". 
A clear and simple program for automatic creation of product bases. 
First of all, the required base is selected, then its size and application are set, and the program instantly gives us a ready-made model. 
This program builds models using the method of designer Pavlova Nina Iosifovna. 
In programming, we can't model. 
Ready-made samples are printed out, the sheets are glued together, and only then can the finished samples be modeled "manually".
Optitex 11.you can create parametric lectures, such as the" Valentine " program. 
An algorithm for creating a model is created, which is written in the program. 
We build a model using our actions and formulas written in the program. 
Subsequently, we simply enter other variables (dimension, addition, etc.) for this algorithm, and the program automatically returns a sample of another dimension. 
The Optitex program, unlike the Valentina program, has a unique ability to measure and simulate a finished model using a virtual 3D dummy [6]. 
Graph (SAPR Grafis). 
It has the ability to automatically create clothing made of fabric and knitwear, hats based on built-in bases.
In addition, the base structure can be designed and maintained according to any design method: 
Emko, TSOTSCHL, M. Muller and son, etc. 
You can make changes, increase and model details using gradation tools, and add an addition to the seam. 
You can use two modeling options: automatic and manual. 
The program allows you to work even with ready-made paper samples. 
The graphic design format is compatible with all modern computer-aided design programs [7]. 
Let's look at the work done on the Compass - 3D V15 program. 
Working on this program is very convenient, easy and Fast [8, 9]. To start the program "Compass-3D V15" when running the Compass ASKON Compass sequence of commands, a window for opening the program document appears on the screen (Figure 1).
Launch the Compass program and select the file creation fragment.
The program "Compass-3D V15" consists of: drawing, excerpt, text document, arbitrary separation, Assembly,fractional documents.
To draw the line of the armpit game of the back of the shirt and the game of the neck, follow the parameters in the formula: 
Conclusion. 
The materials considered in the article are presented in the section "modeling of technological processes".
computer technologies"," drawing and drawing geometry"," computer graphics"
it can be used in teaching courses of pedagogical and technical specialties.
APPLICATION OF GENETIC ALGORITHMS IN PRACTICE
Currently, there is a rapid development of branches of science related to decision-making automation. 
At the same time, one of the most pressing issues is optimization, implementation of distributed and parallel systems. 
They are also implemented by simple mathematical methods, but due to the fact that some problems require a lot of additional time and resources, they require a special approach and algorithm. 
These include genetic algorithms. 
These days, genetic algorithms are turning from promising methods to affordable, convenient, and widely used methods for solving problems. 
This article shows the structure and relevance of genetic algorithms related to evolutionary calculations. 
They provide information about their advantages, effectiveness and scope of application. 
The principle of operation of the genetic algorithm is described in detail. 
Keywords: biological evolution, evolutionary calculus, genetic algorithms, optimal solutions, optimal methods, population, individual, new generation.
In recent years, there has been an increased interest in solving significant practical problems, developing effective self-learning systems, and studying the possibilities of using the mechanisms of biological evolution to achieve optimal solutions. 
A new term has emerged – evolutionary computing, which combines all the research areas of artificial evolution modeled on a computer. 
Among these areas, genetic algorithms play a key role, evolutionary strategies and evolutionary programming have proven effective in solving many practical problems. 
Unlike classical methods, such as recursive error prediction methods, the Newton-Rafson method, and evolutionary algorithms, many(population) use testable problem solutions that compete with each other. 
There is a simultaneous movement along many interconnected stochastic trajectories that intersect one or more regions of the search space. In a particular case, the target function changes with a random deviation, which makes it possible to find optimal solutions suitable for evolutionary algorithms. 
As a result, using the mechanism inherent in biological evolution, it is possible to create an algorithm that will be effective in a wide range of conditions[1]. 
Genetic algorithms were created as a result of monitoring the functioning of a biological system. 
A genetic algorithm is a method of adaptive search, solving complex problems that do not have or do not have an analytical solution, grouping systematic selection and the desired parameters, such as mechanisms of biological evolution, allows you to find a satisfactory solution. 
The first publication on the genetic algorithm belongs to N. A. Baricelli. 
His works" Symbiogenic evolution processes realized by artificial methods "(1957)," Numerical testing of evolution theories " (1962) are aimed at understanding the phenomenon of naturalness.
In 1966, L. J. Vogel, A. J. Owens, M. J. Walsh proposed and studied the evolution of simple Automata that predict symbols in numerical order. 
D. H. Holland, who is considered the modern father of the theory of genetic algorithms, proposed the scheme theorem in his famous book Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems, published in 1975. 
He suggested that genetic algorithms are an analytical justification of a set of fixed parameters, as well as the basic idea and reproductive plan of genetic operators. 
In his book, he first introduced the term" genetic algorithm " and proposed the classical scheme of the genetic algorithm. 
In addition, D. H. Holland was interested in the adaptation of natural systems, and his dream was to create a system that could adapt to any environmental conditions. 
In Kazakhstan, interest in the genetic algorithm has been growing in recent years. 
In many national universities and research centers, there are many works that use a genetic algorithm. 
One of them was used in many scientific works by N. B. Kalieva, A. M. Kasenkhan, A. S. Solonukha, etc. [2-4]. 
While traditional analytical methods use real numbers, a human solution can be presented in mathematics as unreal sets. 
Non-specific sets formed the basis of the concept of linguistic variables, the symbols of which will be numbers, not words. 
Genetic algorithms can work with such variables. 
The advantage of genetic algorithms is that they look for not just one accurate or accurate solution, but a whole group of possible solutions that can be selected for the best solution. 
All similar input data is distributed across clusters, so genetic algorithms can be used in multi-parameter problems. 
The principle of operation of the genetic algorithm [5]. 
The genetic algorithm works with a set of individuals (populations) that represent the paths that encode the solution to the problem. 
With this property, genetic algorithms differ from other optimization algorithms, which continue to work and improve only one solution. 
With the help of the predisposition function, the individual is distinguished among the population: 
- special inclinations (the most appropriate solution), they get the opportunity to hybridize and propagate offspring; 
- the weakest (bad decision), they are eliminated from the population and do not spread offspring. 
Thus, the new generation will have a higher predisposition than the previous generation. 
This is shown in Figure 1.
The algorithm step consists of 3 main steps:
1.intermediate generation by selecting the current generation.
2.formation of a new generation, hybridization (recombination) of the intermediate population with the use of crossover (crossover) for individuals.
3.the transformation of a new generation. 
The initial two stages are shown in Figure 2.
Selection. An intermediate population is a collection of individuals who have the right to reproduce. 
Particularly prone individuals can be recorded in this set several times, and the weakest ones are most likely not to fall at all. 
There are several ways to implement the selection process:  
Stochastic sampling.
Let each individual be located on the roulette wheel in the size of a sector that is proportional to its inclination. 
We run the roulette N times and write down the number of individuals required for the intermediate population. 
Stochastic residual selection (remainder stochastic sampling). 
The predisposition of each individual is determined in relation to the average predisposition of the population. 
The whole part shows how many times an individual can be recorded in an intermediate population, and the fraction shows how many times it can be recorded again. 
It is convenient to implement such an approach as: 
if we place the individuals as they say on the roulette table, if the roulette has not one language, but N languages, and they cross the same sector, one move of the roulette table selects all n individuals and writes them to the intermediate population. 
Hybridization. 
In the intermediate population, individuals are randomly divided into pairs and hybridize with some probability, as a result of which two newly formed breeds are recorded in a new generation, and if they do not hybridize, then this pair is recorded. 
Change.The new generation obtained by selection and hybridization uses a change operator to "knock" the population out of the local extremum and protect it from pre-accumulation. 
Each individual of the population is subject to inversion with some probability. 
This probability is usually less than 1%. 
Several points on a chromosome can be selected for inversion, and they can also be random. 
You can invert several consecutive groups of points. 
Among the recommendations for the probability of choice on the subject of change, you can find the option 1/L or 1/N. 
Evolution is the process of continuous optimization of biological species.
 Such a process of evolution can go on indefinitely, so the criterion of termination is applied.
 The criterion for stopping can be the determined number of generations or convergence of the population. 
When all the paths of a population are located in a certain area of the extremum and are almost identical, this is considered a state of convergence of the population. 
Then the crossover will not change the population at all, and the individuals that will undergo the change will be more prone to extinction due to their low adaptation rate. 
Thus, the accumulation of the population, which optimizes the solution. 
The final solution to the problem will be a better adapted personality of the last generation. 
Natural selection guarantees that individuals with a high predisposition will give a large breed, and thanks to genetic inheritance, these breeds will not only retain the high predisposition of their parents, but also acquire several new qualities. 
If new properties are useful, they are passed on to the next generation. 
Thus, the gradual predisposition of the biological species to useful properties continues to increase. 
Knowing how the optimization problem of a species occurs in nature, we can apply this method to specific problems. 
Optimization reports are the most common and important class in practice. 
Among such problems, there are those that can be solved in the simplest way, but there is no exact solution. 
In optimization problems, you can work with several parameters of any single function (including X1, X2,... let's denote xn, and our goal is to maximize or decrease), f (X1, X2,... xn), which will depend on these parameters. 
the function f is called the goal function. 
For example, if the goal function (the company's revenue) is to maximize, the company will have managed parameters such as the number of employees, production volume, advertising costs, final product cost, and so on. 
These parameters are closely related, as it is possible to reduce production volumes by reducing the number of employees. 
In mathematics, there are several ways to solve such problems.if the goal function is smooth and has only one local maximum (unimodal), then the optimal solution can be obtained by lowering the gradient. 
In this approach, the optimal solution is obtained by iteration. 
A random starting point is obtained, and in the loop this point moves one step in the direction of growth of the target function. 
The disadvantage of the gradient algorithm is that there is a high requirement for a function, in practice unimodality is rare, and lowering the gradient for an aimless function leads to an optimal solution. 
In most problems, parameters can only take specific features, and at other points, the goal function is not known, in which case other approaches are fundamentally required. 
In this case, you will need a new optimization method that can be used in practice – a genetic algorithm. 
In addition, these new methods are used in the results of research on the mechanism of the brain's work with neural networks, a dynamically developing direction that allows for effective integration. 
This integration increases the capabilities of the evolutionary algorithm and expands its scope of application. 
In mathematics, there is a large class of very reliable methods for solving various problems (in the sense of obtaining a guaranteed real solution). 
However, these reliable methods are not often used in practice to solve really complex problems.
As a rule, such problems are not considered in a meaningful solution, as they seem to have no ends. 
For example, a company engaged in transportation, instead of optimizing the route and travel schedule, will hire an extra driver and increase the price of services. 
And in the foreign market, the optimality of the firm's activities significantly affects its profit, and can also be a decisive factor for its firm presence in the market [6]. 
In the literature, ways to solve transport problems using a combined genetic algorithm are considered. 
There are several restrictions on the direction of each vehicle, which are determined by the following formulas:
Such limitations allow us to effectively solve transport problems using genetic algorithm selection, hybridization, and change operators. 
The genetic algorithm does not require mathematical conditions and constraints related to advantage, goal functions. 
The researcher does not need to artificially reduce the model of an object in order to apply mathematical methods, and he does not have to lose everything in relation to it. 
For this reason, there are different purpose functions, types of constraints (linear and nonlinear), discrete defined, continuous and mixed universal sets can be used. 
The power of a genetic algorithm can control several parameters at the same time, this feature is used in many application programs, helicopter design, tuning algorithm parameters, and finding stable states of nonlinear systems of differential equations. 
As a result, the genetic algorithm has many modifications, depends on parameters, is a universal optimization method that is successfully used in various optimization problems in cases where it is difficult or impossible to use other methods. 
By changing one of the parameters, you can get the best result. 
Therefore, in recent years, the genetic algorithm has been widely used in the fields of functional optimization, synthesis and management, optimization of computing systems, automatic classification, multi-criteria transport, salesman calculations, game theory and game modeling, biological systems modeling, adaptive Object Management, intelligent robots, artificial life, etc.
THE ROLE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGIES IN THE TRAINING OF FUTURE COMPUTER SCIENCE TEACHERS
The article discusses the importance and place of teaching telecommunications technologies to students of computer science specialties in pedagogical universities. 
Due to the widespread introduction of information and communication technologies in all spheres of human life, future computer science teachers need to master in depth, with an emphasis on programming for telecommunications systems, which is one of the most important components of Computer Science. 
In this article, questions about the content, relevance and necessity of teaching future computer science teachers programming for telecommunications systems are considered. 
We offer the course "programming for telecommunications systems" in the course of training in Computer Science. 
It can be associated with teaching one of the most modern scripting languages in the form of platform-independent interpreters, for example, PHP. 
The basis of interaction of the WEB service with the end user of the network using such a language on the server side is shown. 
Knowledge of such a concept as the software interface, presented on the example of CGI, complements the knowledge of computer science students. 
Keywords: Telecommunications, Information Systems, Programming Languages, paradigms, object, hierarchy, network, protocol, client, server.
Today, the development of society is accompanied by informatization. 
We see this reflected in all areas of human life and professional activities. 
Currently, informatization of society requires people to be able to set new requirements, navigate the information environment, and be ready to quickly master advanced technologies. 
The process of informatization had an impact on education at the first stage. 
According to the concepts of informatization of education in the country, one of the main goals of informatization of education is to improve the quality of education in the country based on the use of Information Technologies. 
The main condition for achieving this goal is that a modern teacher should be able to effectively build the educational process in the context of informatization of society and education. 
The requirement of today's society is the training of specialists in schools and universities who are able to perform effective activities in the current conditions. 
The teacher contributes to improving the quality and accessibility of education through the use of information and communication technologies in their professional activities. 
The education system is aimed at preparing students for life in the information society, training them to act in this environment, and fully using all their capabilities in professional activities. 
Due to the constant complexity of technologies and changes in the types of technologies, the amount of knowledge, qualifications and skills required by modern specialists to master them is constantly increasing. 
These days, Society is very interested in adapting education to the modern world. 
Learning should be accompanied by the expansion of the information world in accordance with the flow of time. 
Computer and telecommunications technologies are entering the educational process more deeply, influencing the content, methods and forms of teaching. 
The development of informatization tools, information and especially telecommunications technologies, leads to the creation of an information environment for any subject activity. 
This makes it possible to rethink the goals, content, forms and methods of teaching computer science in general and higher pedagogical education in accordance with the needs of modern society. 
The current state educational policy focuses on the process of informatization of education, the use of computer and telecommunications technologies in educational institutions of various levels. 
Much attention is paid to equipping educational institutions with means of access to the Internet. 
In this regard, future computer science teachers should deepen and supplement their knowledge of computer and telecommunications systems. 
In traditional teaching of students, mastering the basics of programming is not considered at the proper level, as it is necessary to understand the processes occurring within telecommunications systems. 
This leads to the fact that future teachers will not be able to explain to students the logic of creating such telecommunications systems. 
Even the hierarchical arrangement of objects in systems cannot be understood without knowing the mechanisms of their interaction with each other. 
Based on the example of considering one of these services (http protocol and CGI programming), you can form basic views on programming for other types of systems. 
This is due to the fact that all telecommunications systems are built only on certain principles, the architectures are repeated, and the Protocols of interaction of objects are approximately similar. 
For example, the description of the operation of a network of ATMs (a simple telecommunications system) does not differ much from the description of the operation of internet chats. 
When a student understands the technology of the programming mechanism for one telecommunications system (in our case, the interaction of the client and server over the http protocol according to the CGI Interface Specification), they will be able to program in other unfamiliar systems. 
For an ordinary user, the development of Information Technologies is mainly indicated by telecommunications innovations. 
Future computer science teachers should take into account the latest achievements of the information world. 
They introduce their students to rapidly developing information systems. 
Future computer science teachers need to teach programming in telecommunications systems. 
Not only do browsers, or ICQ,teach you how to work, but they also require systematic knowledge of the basic basics of Web programming. 
We offer a training course "programming in telecommunications systems" for the process of training computer science specialists. 
It can be attributed to the current platform-independent interpreters, teaching one of the scripting languages of the type PHP. 
The basis for interaction with the end user of the network using such a language on the server side of the WEB service is indicated. Knowledge of such a concept as the software interface, presented on the example of CGI, complements the knowledge of students of Computer Science.
It is impossible to describe a modern information technology system without including one of its main areas – working with databases. 
Here, based on the example of MySql, it is planned to introduce students to the SQL language and the ability to use databases in programming languages such as PHP. 
The PHP programming language is designed to simplify and improve the efficiency of interaction with databases. C
in addition, it is necessary to raise the question of HTML, the most common HyperText Markup Language in the world, which is another component of WEB programming. 
This language is very necessary for specialists in the field of Computer Science, a specialist familiar with HTML can make a reliable route on the Internet. 
It is also possible to show one of the most promising information processes, namely the creation of independent programming projects from the operating system and surrounding it. 
For such products, it does not matter whether the operating system runs on Microsoft Windows or Unix, or whether the software tools, such as Apache or Microsoft Internet Information Server, are used to support the WEB service. 
In the practical part of the project for creating a simplified comprehensive software solution, for example, you can use the creation of a WEB interface with the ability to read and convert user data to access the MySql database. 
Based on this example, you can show how most web subsystems work, such as forums, bulletin boards, chats, and so on. 
Understanding and mastering these issues is the basis for effective use of modern information technologies.
INTERACTIVE TRAINING – AS A TOOL FOR IMPROVING THE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING OF FUTURE COMPUTER SCIENCE SPECIALISTS
The article discusses the use of interactive teaching methods in professional training of future computer science specialists. The relevance of this issue in the regulatory documents adopted in the Republic of Kazakhstan is analyzed. 
The importance of developing the intellectual level of students in the implementation of training of specialists in higher educational institutions is noted and it can be achieved if interactive teaching methods are effectively used in the educational process. 
It is noted that in the process of training future computer science specialists, it is important to prepare interactive complex tasks and exercises for teaching special and methodological disciplines, including them in the learning process. 
The main features of the teacher's readiness for innovative activities are presented. 
The article also analyzes the experience of implementing interactive training in pedagogical universities in the process of continuous training of future specialists and preparing teachers for the introduction of innovative training technologies. 
Key words: interactive learning, innovative technologies, interactive interaction, innovative activities, the process of training future computer science specialists, motivational and value orientations of the student.
One of the most important tasks facing the higher education system is to provide future specialists not only with the acquisition of knowledge, but also with a radical change in the way they think. 
The important question here is not what is taught in a higher education institution, but how it is taught. 
It is this factor that contributes to the cognitive, intellectual, and creative development of students, ensures the formation of their professional training, and in the future ensures their position as a socially responsible specialist. 
On this issue, the main directions and ideas of the introduction of innovative technologies in the field of education and the process of informatization, which have become catalysts for the development of the education system in the country, issues of training competitive specialists, which are the basis for sustainable economic development of the country, are discussed in the state educational program for the development of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2005-2010, the concept of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2015, the concept of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2015, the concept of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2015, the concept of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2015. – "2030"", the Strategic Development Plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020," "Nurly Zhol - the way to the future ""(2014), ""Kazakhstan in a new reality: growth, reforms, development""." 
In the field of Higher Education: "...the need to achieve a high level of quality of education in accordance with world practice in the field of education and meet the needs of the labor market, the tasks of industrial and innovative development of the individual, the country" [1]. 
"Developed on the basis of the National Plan ""100 concrete steps "" for the development of Education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019." the state program " [2] clearly defines measures for the further development of education and science. 
For successful training in a higher educational institution, the level of general intellectual development of a student, namely, the level of perception of information, the ability to analyze it, memory, system of thinking, motivation and attention, the range of cognitive interests, the level of mastering certain logical actions, must be as high as possible. 
This requires teachers of higher education institutions to organize training in a new way. 
In the current conditions of education in higher education institutions, it is necessary to introduce teaching methods that lead to significant changes in the structure of students ' value orientations. 
This is due to the fact that the implementation of ensuring the improvement of the quality of education, the formation of professional skills and skills at the level of requirements for the quality of specialists by society is carried out on the basis of interactive teaching methods. 
This special new type of teaching organization offers the introduction of various means, methods and methods of teaching, new ways of interaction between teachers and students. 
The main concept here is the method of learning, which is understood as a set of actions that ensure that the information received is formed into knowledge of significant significance for a person.
Interactive learning consists not only of large-scale interaction of students with the teacher, but also involves their interaction with each other, and their activity in the learning process becomes a priority [3]. 
Three important aspects of the joint activity of this teacher and students can be identified: 
- communication is a topical issue in the exchange of knowledge, values and ideas, but also of particular importance is the interaction of the subject and the subject, the emotional states of the subjects in the interaction; 
– Interactive-all types of cognitive processes that ensure the effective assimilation of knowledge, the ability to use it competently in practical activities, the accumulation of knowledge and the formation of new knowledge on the basis of which become active; 
- perceptual-the process of recognition and perception of each other by learning subjects is also important, because on the basis of these processes, mutual understanding is formed, which is of particular importance in interaction with the environment, in solving professional and managerial tasks. 
The effectiveness of interactive learning depends on how well the relationship between the teacher and the student is established. 
At the same time, it depends on what level of active teaching methods and pedagogical technologies are used, whether the methodological material is prepared at the same level, how well they are provided by the methods of their delivery, and how effective feedback is in the educational process. 
Effective solutions to this problem ensure that the student independently acquires knowledge and independently manages and regulates the educational process. 
The knowledge gained as a result of such activities becomes an important value. 
Thus, interactive learning requires dedication from the teacher and high requirements for independent, active activity of the student. 
This, in turn, allows the student to build a trajectory of mastering their knowledge, understand its significance for professional activity and understand how to continue it in the future. 
The study of this problem required the university to prepare interactive complex tasks and exercises for teaching special and methodological disciplines, which are taught in the process of training future computer science specialists, and include them in the learning process. 
As a result of the implementation of such tasks, the student not only learns, learns and fixes the educational material, but also forms personal and professional characteristics of each individual, necessary for their own development and in the future to ensure their position as a competent specialist in the social environment. 
The results of the study showed that significant changes have taken place in the organization of students ' educational activities in interactive mode. 
First of all, students ' interest in learning has increased, and there is a strong relationship between the teacher and the students. 
The purpose of the event was to familiarize students with the history of the Kazakh language, the history of the Kazakh language, the history of the Kazakh language, the history of the Kazakh language, the history of the Kazakh language. 
Students developed and defended mini-projects, learned to work in a group, in the process of working with a group, the process of helping each other, mutual control and evaluation became important, and cooperation was achieved. 
The most important issue can be called their persistent desire to receive high-quality education,which is necessary for their formation and development as a professional in the future. 
As a result of further monitoring of students ' learning and various activities and views,it was noted that they are ready to find solutions to unresolved problems, do not turn away from the problems that arise in the learning process, can overcome them on their own, and strive to solve problems that can benefit in student life on their own. 
Students ' clear desire for higher education, attitude to a good life, material security, desire to socialize, making life plans indicate the formation of their value orientations, the desire to achieve success, the desire to set goals, independence, the ability to communicate, as well as socio-psychological qualities. 
This system of values and interests, which is formed in the course of interactive learning, is of great importance in regulating the behavior and activities of students, in their formation and development as a person and allows them to demonstrate and realize their intellectual potential and social activity in the future. 
The selection of productive teaching methods that characterize the peculiarities of interaction of subjects in the learning process is of great importance in the organization of interaction with students. 
If we look at the history of pedagogy, there are enough problems that require in-depth study in the process of teaching and upbringing. 
There are well-known views and opinions that have developed about a number of them. 
As B. M. Clarin points out, " among the modern didactic searches, a special place is occupied by discussions on learning. 
The form of Organization of training and the way of working with the content of the educational material are inextricably linked. 
He develops constructive thinking and instills in the culture of a Democratic Society" [4]. 
Productive interaction is carried out in the process of organized interaction with the involvement of all subjects in solving such a problem as joint discussion of the situations raised. 
Here, the activity is focused not on the personality of the participants,but on communication. 
The realization of the relationship is through the subject, and knowledge in all spheres of human activity can be taken as a subject. 
For the organization of productive interaction between students and teachers through direct communication, special tools and methods of organizing direct communication, a special technology that includes forms and stages of organizing pedagogical interaction were used. 
It is carried out through active interaction of teachers and students, intensification of educational and cognitive activities, without conducting the learning process in the traditional way. 
The result of learning based on the active activity of such a subject allows you not only to mechanically remember the educational material, but also to understand it, analyze it, give it an assessment and express its opinion. 
Thus, the teacher's monologue in the traditional method becomes an active direct interaction between students and the teacher in interactive learning. 
In our research, active methods of interactive teaching were used: Role-Playing, business Games, project method, electronic portfolio, Intelligence Map, analysis of real pedagogical situations [3], [5], [6], [7]. 
An important feature of such direct interaction is the ability of students and teachers to "immediately perceive another role", to visualize how their partner perceives it during direct communication, to analyze and identify their specific actions in order to remove this role in an organized pedagogical situation. 
Interactive interaction provides a system of its interaction: planned actions on the part of the teacher, and unforeseen situations on the part of students, and these conditions allow them to develop their subjectivity harmoniously. 
It is also successfully implemented in practical classes in the form of a "round table", a "pedagogical Council". 
One of the most important components of interactive interaction is learning tools. 
In our case, we used educational and methodological literature and electronic textbooks, internet resources and computers, interactive whiteboards, and software tools related to special disciplines. 
The specifics of their use are determined by factors related to the form of learning, the personality of students, the peculiarities of perception and thinking of information. 
Interactive learning requires the use of various technologies: 
independence of the type of relations in the system of interaction "teacher-student"; the presence of such an interest as the student's readiness to perceive information; 
in the process of learning, the student's activity of all types of cognitive process increases; 
ability to repeat the educational material at any time convenient for the student; 
the ability to choose to conduct classes in conditions that are favorable to the student, which ensures the effectiveness of knowledge acquisition; 
the ability to access databases that provide an increase in the cognitive activity of the student during the educational process, the ability of the student to work independently in their educational activities, etc. 
The introduction of interactive teaching methods into the learning process requires appropriate training from the teacher for its implementation. 
More precisely, there should be a well-developed literate teacher with a special professional pedagogical education, who is able to organize and implement innovative pedagogical activities, and think about the subjects of the pedagogical process in a new way.
Professional pedagogical education of a teacher in a higher educational institution aimed at applying innovative teaching technologies: 
"I don't know," he said, " but I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it." 
At the same time, it is considered as ways to implement innovative technologies in the context of credit technology training in higher education institutions. 
Here we can highlight three important features in the professional pedagogical education of a teacher: 
understand knowledge, critically process it, and take action. 
Knowledge of innovative learning technologies, understood as a result of practical activities and acquired as knowledge, becomes a kind of heritage of the individual, competently used in practice and becomes a powerful methodological tool of the teacher. 
Only such knowledge allows the teacher to solve various educational and cognitive problems, and the student to acquire new knowledge based on it. 
As a result of the joint activity of the teacher and the student, knowledge is not just transmitted, it is acquired as a result of the active, productive activity of the student. 
In the process of performing such joint activities, students ' self-interest,desire to learn, and activity increase, resulting in the formation of an independent learning trajectory of the student. 
The use of innovative learning technologies not only increases the activity of the educational process, but also ensures the formation of a set of professionally significant qualities that reflect the professional development of the teacher, his readiness and competence for innovative activities. 
As the main features of the teacher's readiness for innovative activities: 
- have a purposeful approach to the implementation of innovative technologies in pedagogical activities; 
a pronounced innovative orientation in the teacher's activities, namely, understanding the essence of innovative processes in teaching, striving to master new ideas and directions in teaching;
 - depth and breadth of knowledge about innovative technologies, their adaptation and methods of implementation in higher education institutions; 
formation of professional pedagogical skills; 
- development of a reflexive attitude necessary for further self-improvement of knowledge about the use of innovative technologies. 
Currently, innovative learning technologies are becoming an integral part of pedagogical research in many countries. 
As can be seen from the works of researchers who conducted research in this direction, innovative learning technologies have a significant contribution not only to the development of educational opportunities, but also to the development of motivational value orientations of students. 
The dynamics of the development of a student's motivational orientation is inextricably linked with the personality of the teacher teaching at the University and the teaching methods used by him. 
Effective use of interactive teaching methods and pedagogical technologies in the education system leads to a significant change in the structure of students ' motivation orientation, and on the basis of this motivational and value orientation, the student's personal qualities are formed. 
Interactive learning is what develops students ' creative abilities. 
Its improvement begins with an increase in the activity of mental activity, the highest manifestation of which is an adaptation to the creative way of solving any problem. 
This shows the student's creative thinking. 
One of the methods of developing students ' creative thinking is a special method of thinking with a group called "Brainstorming", the main essence of which is the influence of the group on solving the problem. 
When increasing creative activity, it is necessary to take into account the following four rules:: 
suggestions and opinions should not be criticized;any association should be rewarded; 
the proposed ideas should not be limited; the proposed ideas should not be allowed to change or improve. 
This method is based on confidence, creative thinking requires freedom, and there should be no prohibitions on thinking.
 Such teaching methods teach students to listen and make effective suggestions. 
The discipline "methodology of teaching computer science" plays a special role in attracting future computer science specialists to the development of innovative learning technologies and their use in the learning process. 
We say that the content of this discipline should pay special attention to interactive teaching methods, including the issue of preparing future specialists for interactive learning activities. 
At the lecture lesson, it is necessary to analyze in detail the stages of preparation of a teacher for innovative activities, and at the seminar and laboratory classes, students should prepare a series of computer science lessons based on the use of innovative technologies and teach them to defend them openly. 
The final lesson can also be organized in the form of a competition lesson between groups or group Students. 
The introduction of students to the use of innovative technologies should not be limited to one subject. 
In order for students to better master innovative technologies, university teachers should use innovative technologies, even elements of innovative learning, in organizing the study of the subjects taught to them. 
When students acquire knowledge based on innovative learning technologies, they tend to be able to use it in practice and organize their own training based on the use of innovative technologies. 
In addition, the master's program should include courses aimed at teaching innovative learning technologies. 
For example, students of the Abai Kazakh National Pedagogical University in the specialty "6m011100-Informatics" are taught a subject called "methodological foundations of the use of innovative tools in teaching Computer Science" under the modular curriculum. 
The purpose of teaching the discipline is to form a holistic view of undergraduates about innovative processes in modern schools, the educational process based on an individual – oriented approach; 
familiarization with the methodological foundations of innovation processes taking place in the education system, ways of their effective implementation in teaching computer science; 
formation of professional competence of the future computer science teacher for innovative activities. 
As a result of studying the discipline, undergraduates were able to: get acquainted with the technologies of teaching in the education system, analyze the innovative technologies used in the process of teaching computer science at school;
preparation of a set of lessons aimed at the formation of informational and research competencies of students; drawing up a diagnostic map "assessment of the teacher's readiness for innovative activities". 
As we have already noted, the implementation of innovative technologies in higher education institutions determines the availability of pedagogical education. 
Taking into account that the implementation of education in higher educational institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan is carried out on the basis of credit technology of training, a teacher should be able to adapt and implement innovative technologies in his subject, in accordance with the possibilities and rules of credit technology of training. 
Training of teachers for the introduction of innovative technologies can also be carried out through methodological seminars held at the university or institute. 
The purpose of such methodological seminars is to expand and deepen the knowledge of teachers, including young professionals, master's and doctoral students, exchange and Exchange best practices of teachers, teach young professionals to use innovative learning technologies, organize training in an innovative way. 
Only with a systematic organization of the introduction of innovative learning technologies in the education system will we achieve high-quality education and training of specialists in accordance with the requirements of the present time.
CRYPTOGRAGFIC SECURITY OF SENDING AN ELECTRONIC PROTOCOL
Computer information plays a very important role in your life, and protection issues are of paramount importance. 
In this article, the state of cryptographic security of sending an electronic protocol is studied, the issues of writing its programming algorithms and implementing them are considered. 
Among the various cryptographic methods, the best solution is to use methods based on a non-positional polynomial counting system. 
The formation of encryption and electronic digital signature, the distribution of cryptographic keys and the use of a non - positional polynomial counting system in the development and research of algorithms and methods-increases the security situation of the project. 
In most cases, research work ensures that the protocol is as safe as possible. 
In this case, a cryptographic method based on a non-positional polynomial counting system (PEPSJ) was used and implemented. 
Key words: cryptography, internet, security, creation of a non-positional polynomial system, encryption, decryption, Java programming. 
Introduction. 
Computer information plays an important role in our lives, and the issues of its protection are of paramount importance. 
Technical problems that pose various threats to information and hackers who use it carry out their actions. 
Users require security to prevent such threats. 
In the modern world, the problem of ensuring information security is becoming increasingly important. 
Currently, the use of some secret word protection systems is not able to provide the most reliable security. 
To achieve the highest level of security, the password must be more complex. 
The complexity of a password is characterized by the use of letters, numbers, and symbols together. 
Each Information Resource recommends creating its own password. 
One of the ways to achieve such security is cryptography. 
Currently, there are several types of cryptographic methods, such as: 
There are many other cryptographic security methods, such as DES, AES, RC4, and so on. 
Among the various cryptographic methods, it should be noted that the use of methods based on a non-positional polynomial counting system (PEPSJ) is closely related to the problem of good decision-making. 
Therefore, during the research work, we can compile encryption algorithms for this method. 
The use of a cryptographic method based on a non – positional polynomial counting system (PEPSS) in the development and research of algorithms and methods for encryption and the formation of an electronic digital signature, the distribution of cryptographic keys increases the security status of the project. 
The course of this research work is primarily a theoretical study. 
This project mainly includes electronic protocols, in particular: 
It is a project for sending cryptographic electronic messages to users who exchange protocols with each other through e-mail, Facebook, Vkontakte, Gmail, and many other networks. 
Because today, many security programs are being developed to combat copyright infringement or hackers illegally using other users ' personal information, Money in the card system, and so on. 
Purpose of the work: 
1) study the issues of ensuring the security of users when transmitting or storing data. 
2) study of encryption algorithms created on the basis of a non-positional polynomial counting system and its implementation in the electronic protocol system. 
3) secure correspondence between users will be carried out on the Java platform. 
Research papers. 
1) evaluate existing cryptography methods and identify and analyze their advantages and disadvantages. 
2) study of the encryption algorithm on which the non-positional polynomial counting system is based. 
3) creation of a modification of the encryption algorithm on which the non-positional polynomial counting system is based. 
Features. 
1) using an algorithm based on a non-positional polynomial counting system as a method of protecting cryptography when sending a protocol. 
2) protocol exchange takes place between any two users. 
The main thing is the server, and the client side that connects directly to it. 
3) communication between two users is established directly by the IP address of the computer. 
4) Chat does not require any internet connection. 
An encryption algorithm based on a non-positional polynomial counting system(PEPSJ). 
The general non-positional counting system was first proved by the Chinese mathematician Sun Tse in the First Century. 
After that, in 1955, the Czech Engineer M. valaha and mathematician A. Svoboda developed their proposals for applying the residual class system to a computer counting operation. 
This proposal aroused the interest of other scientists. 
As a result, a new scientific direction appeared – modular arithmetic.
In addition, in 1955, research work in this direction began in the USSR, and I. Ya.Akushsky, D. I. Yuditsky and V. M. Amerbayev contributed to its broad development.  Construction of a non-positional polynomial counting system. 
Key generation according to the specified model during the working procedure encrypts and decrypts an electronic message with a length of N Bits, sending an electronic message is encrypted by cryptographic method in a database in a non-positional polynomial counting system. 
p1(x), p2(x),..., pn(x) – ps(x) is the basis of a non - positional polynomial counting system, and P (x) is the division remainder of a polynomial. 
The polynomial P (x) = (p1(x), p2(x),...,ps (x)), degree m is thus the main operating range of a non-positional polynomial counting system.
Where m1, m2... Ms multi-member degrees.
 The message coming through a non-positional polynomial counting system is interpreted as the remainder α1(x), α1(x), α, αs(x) in the polynomial f(x), respectively (for p1(x), p2(x),..., ps(x: 
Encryption algorithm based on a non-positional polynomial counting system. 
All replacement paths are determined based on the selected main ones. 
The non-positional(1) polynomial F(x) has only one path, and the positional F (x) will be restored by the non-positional (1: 
After that, β1(x), β2(x),..., βs(x) are expressed for the base of N Bits of length, but the polynomial is divided by G(x) and written by the same system: 
Equation (4) unknown ki determines the coefficients, - polynomial degree mi, 1 mi msN, S = k1 + k2 + ...+ ks the number of all selected primes. 
Equation (4) N indicates the number S to be selected, covering the length of the protocol. 
Encryption method. 
In the case of using different encryption methods, it will give us different cryptographic models. 
In this model, when sending an electronic protocol, we multiply(1) and (3) for the result of the cryptogram H(x) = (ω1(x), ω 1 (x), ω, ωs (x)) and divide pi(x) by the remainder. 
When deciphering the H(x) cryptogram, it depends on the case(3) for each βi (x) value under the known G (x) key. 
Conclusion. 
Computer information plays an important role in our lives, and the issues of its protection are of paramount importance. 
Technical problems that pose various threats to information and hackers who use it carry out their actions. 
Users require security to prevent such threats. 
Therefore, when sending an electronic protocol, a cryptographic method was used, based on a non-positional polynomial counting system. 
According to The conducted studies, the cryptographic method built on the basis of a non-positional polynomial counting system is effective.
CURRENT POTENTIAL FOR USING MOBILE LEARNING TOOLS
In modern society, mobile devices, communications and mobile internet are more accessible and popular. 
The phrase "mobile learning" or "mlearnng", which appeared in the scientific and pedagogical literature in the English language ten years ago, has become more often heard and used even in our country. 
Learning with the active use of information and communication technologies, in the future, will contribute to the development and dissemination of learning through mobile communication tools, and the possibilities of the interface of learning technologies through the use of educational programs and educational applications will allow improving and expanding the quality of Education. 
The article discusses the current potential for using mobile learning tools. 
The works of foreign and domestic researchers on the use of mobile learning tools have been studied. 
The relevance of the problem of effective use of mobile devices in the educational process as a means of learning is described. 
The need to introduce mobile learning tools into the learning process is analyzed. 
Keywords: mobile training, mobile devices, information and telecommunications technologies, mobile training system, mobile technology
In the state program for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020, "90% of educational organizations will have internet resources with the necessary educational resources. 
Interactive and intelligent digital educational resources will be developed for each subject taught in basic and specialized secondary schools. 
It is planned to fully provide organizations of Secondary, Technical and vocational education with open access to digital educational content (any information resource – text, image, music, video, sound, etc.). 
The share of students who have mastered the educational programs in natural and mathematical disciplines (in 2015-60%, in 2020 – 70%).
Results of students of general education schools of Kazakhstan in international comparative studies of PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS (2015: PISA – 50-55 places, TIMSS – 10-15 places, 2020: PISA – 40-50 places, TIMSS – 10-12 places, PIRLS – 10-15 places) [1]. 
For the first time in 2000-2001, information about "mobile learning" ("m-learning") was presented in the scientific and pedagogical literature. 
In the education system of our country, at the stage of implementation of programs for informatization, creation and implementation of new information and telecommunication technologies and e-learning systems, the issue of "mobile learning" was discussed and put into operation. 
The use of mobile tools in educational technologies, which contribute to improving the quality of students ' knowledge and expanding educational opportunities, is becoming one of the most pressing problems in the global field of pedagogy. 
According to GSMA, a researcher of the global development of the mobile industry, the number of mobile devices in use today is significantly higher than that of the world's population. 
For example, by the end of 2015, GSMA instruments amounted to 7 7.230 billion. the number of people in the world is 7.197 billion. made people. 
Based on these statistics, we can see that mobile technologies and the mobile internet are the most accessible and effective means of communication in the world community. 
In this context, the relevance of the problem of effective use of mobile devices as a means of learning in the educational process is increasing day by day. 
Mobile tools are tools that allow a person to get the necessary information for a certain period of time. 
But mobile tools allow not only to receive the necessary information, but also to process it. 
Therefore, mobile tools are becoming increasingly popular. 
They are especially popular among students, because thanks to these tools, students can communicate not only with each other, but also with their teachers. 
Also, with the help of mobile tools, it is possible to achieve this regardless of the distance of a person who needs electronic educational resources. 
In the implementation of projects for the introduction of mobile learning in the field of Education, various mobile tools are used: 
the didactic capabilities of smartphones, mp3 players, tablets, and voice tools have been studied and optimized for education. 
The problems of using mobile tools for Theoretical and practical purposes, creating mobile educational resources have been studied in a number of foreign scientific circles. 
In the field of development of this issue, the International Conference Mobile Learning has been regularly held in Europe since 2005, the International Conference "MLearnCon" since 2002, and the International Conference "the Mobile Learning Network Project" (MoLeNET – mobile learning system) since 2007 in England. 
The goal is to create and distribute mobile learning technologies and create a single virtual mobile learning system for schools and colleges around the world. 
J."Mobile learning" - changes the traditional learning process, transforms the transmission of educational materials, access to them, and forms new forms of consciousness and mentality," Traxler concluded in his works [2]. 
S. Wexler, B. Schlenker, etc.understand mobile learning as a service based on compact and portable devices that allows students to more effectively master the studied materials, extract and create Information [3].
 The American project" Mobile Learning Environment Project " (The MoLE mobile learning environment) has developed mobile educational resources and implemented a single platform for mastering mobile learning technologies for teaching various subjects. 
 Mobile devices, in terms of their distribution and convenience, contribute to teaching and conducting classes in cases where it is not possible to use personal computers. 
 Mobile devices are a tool that helps to make education more accessible, fairer and more effective for students around the world, which is an effective tool for both politicians and teachers, as well as for those who hope to use universal technologies more effectively. 
 For UNESCO, mobile technologies refer to hardware combinations of operating systems, software networks, including the content of educational platforms for applications. 
 Mobile devices range from mobile phones to tablet PCs and include DPC, MP3 players, memory cards, e-books, and smartphones. [4] 
 In the research of V. A. Kuklov, mobile learning is defined as e-learning on a pedagogical basis with the help of mobile tools with special software coverage. 
 From these definitions, it can be seen that mobile learning is a multi-faceted concept [5]. 
 Scientists of the country Bidaibekov E. I., Grinshkun V. V. and Kamalova G. B. presented in their research the results of the project "development of computer educational and methodological complexes of the new generation, fundamentals of quality monitoring and experimental research". 
 The authors conducted research work aimed at the formation of components of quality monitoring and experimental research, conceptual rules and models of development of a new generation of computer educational and methodological complexes (UMK) for higher education institutions adapted to the specifics of continuing education systems in the Republic of Kazakhstan [6]. 
 These changes are primarily directly related to the field of Education. 
 In this regard, a new philosophy of Education has been formed, and modernization is taking place at a rapid pace. In the field of Education, traditional training is moving to e-learning, and e-learning is moving to mobile learning. 
 In secondary education, priority is given to self-education of students, and distance learning and digital learning are widely used in the system of advanced training. 
 Now the task is to develop a mobile learning environment that will allow the acquired knowledge to serve a person. 
 British scientist A.Kukulska-Hulme defines the device used in mobile learning as follows, as usual: 
 - mobile phones (mobile phones); - offline devices such as mp3 / mp4 players for listening to music; 
 - light, portable computers, laptops, netbooks, small laptops, such as tablet computers [7]. 
 However, this list of devices increases every day, integrating digital voice recorders, e-books, electronic dictionaries, as well as assistive technologies for students with disabilities. 
 Mobile tools are becoming more and more multifunctional with the ability to support verbal communications, listen to letters, track, Read, search for information, perform reports, games, and many others. 
 The choice of device varies depending on the age, address of residence, responsibilities and other factors. 
 As a rule, schoolchildren and students use mobile phones and personal media players. 
 Students can use their personal pocket computer (WPC), smartphones and laptops as personal equipment at the workplace. 
 Mobile is an English word that means mobile, flexible. 
 For example, this word is often found in the words car, mobile phone. 
 So, a mobile is a device that accelerates human activity, allows you to quickly access a particular object. 
 Now we can't imagine our life without these mobile devices at all. 
 The development of information through mobile devices has led to the rapid development of the information environment, thereby increasing the number of users of mobile devices several times. 
 In this regard, the Internet has developed, wireless internet has appeared, and, of course, in this regard, a global market has been formed, which is developing mobile device applications at a great pace. 
 Due to its technological specifics and didactic capabilities, several definitions are given in the scientific literature about "mobile learning". 
 For example, MoLeNet (www.molenet.org.uk) the project considers the concept of" mobile learning " as a portable, wireless, convenient and accessible tool used to improve the effectiveness of educational activities, satisfying the student's work with information to optimize and support learning. 
 "Mobile learning" is a technology in education that facilitates the work of teachers, expands their capabilities, strengthens the depth of knowledge, and is also considered as an auxiliary tool in addition to the main form of training. 
 "Mobile learning" is closely related to the concept of "distance learning". 
 Since the form of communication between the teacher and the student is carried out remotely (Student-object, teacher – subject), the components of the educational process (purpose, content, methodology, organizational form, teaching aids) are fully covered. 
 The difference between the form of learning and distance learning is that the technology of mobile learning concretizes the educational process, the student is an active participant in his / her education (the student is a subject in the educational process). 
 These properties characterize the peculiarity of "mobile learning" from e-learning (e-learning) and Blended learning (Blended learning). 
 Didactic principles of mobile learning: multimedia, structuring, modularity, interactivity, accessibility. 
 In contrast to Blended learning, it is important to note that mobile learning is individual-oriented and non-formal.
 So, mobile learning means learning from anywhere, anytime, with the help of mobile devices. 
 We should note the fact that the use of mobile phones in the educational process in our country has not developed as dynamically as in other countries of the world. 
 Only in 2011, the issues of developing mobile learning in Kazakhstan were considered for the first time at the International Scientific and practical conference "technologies of distance learning in Education", organized by the Ministry of Education and Science. 
 Also, at the beginning of 2011, the first commercial mobile training service was introduced in our country. 
 It is important to note that the most common mobile devices in the Republic of Kazakhstan are mobile phones. 
 In Kazakhstan, there are many specialized stores that sell exclusively mobile devices and mobile phones. 
 The high interest in new mobile phone models among young people is growing day by day. 
 Among schoolchildren and students, the use of modern smartphones to access the mobile internet has become commonplace. 
 If today the mobile phone is the most widely used interactive information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the world, it can also be used to improve the level of education, and ICT has a great potential to contribute to the education of people around the world. 
 Many teachers, schools, and even countries are taking steps to introduce mobile technologies into the education system, in particular: 
 - first, many parents, teachers and even students have learned to view the use of mobile learning in the field of education as inappropriate and potentially harmful to students, despite the fact that mobile tools are well adapted to improve and expand learning opportunities. 
 - secondly, today there is a lack of implementation of national, regional and local policies, which recognize that the most effective joint work in the field of Education actualizes the perception of the potential of mobile learning to help students and teachers. 
 - third, mobile learning offers and can realize rich learning opportunities for students who do not have access to quality education in their daily lives. 
 - fourth, as mobile learning continues to be introduced in education, policymakers need to implement programs to address "digital" inequality. 
 So, in order for mobile learning to really have a positive impact on education, teachers and politicians need to establish new partnerships with enterprises and interested parties that have not yet been involved in education. 
 In our opinion, we believe that the success of the introduction of mobile learning largely depends on the enthusiasm of teachers themselves, who strive to be in the direction of global trends in the field of informatization of Education. 
 It should be noted that the development of mobile learning is an irreversible process, as well as an important tool that should be developed and deepened in the future.
 TEACHING A FOREIGN LANGUAGE USING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
 The article presents ways to teach a foreign language using information technologies. 
 Various methods are considered for effective learning. 
 Currently, information technology and computer telecommunications are increasingly used in the education system. 
 Teaching a foreign language, especially through the distance learning system, is effective and convenient for students, as evidenced by the computer support of educational institutions and the development of internet networks. 
 The traditional form of training has lost its effectiveness, and practice has proven that 50% of the training time is spent alone. 
 Studying foreign experience, we can point out the following important aspect: 
 the teacher does not act as a distributor of information, but as a consultant, sometimes even a board member, and such activities have the following positive aspects: 
 the student actively participates in the learning process, adapts to independent thinking, expresses his point of view and models real situations. 
 Keywords: information and communication technologies, English language, technology, pedagogy, information, student, school.
 The development of Information Technologies has made it possible to conduct classes – the introduction of distance learning. 
 This will allow, firstly, the student to choose the time and place of study, secondly, it will allow people who are deprived of the traditional opportunity to learn, and thirdly, it will reduce the cost of learning new information. 
 In addition, distance learning strengthens the possibility of individual learning. 
 As a rule, electronic textbooks are used in the distance learning form. 
 The effectiveness of these tutorials, in our opinion: 
 firstly, their mobility, and secondly, the possibility of using them anywhere due to the development of computer networks. 
 The creation of electronic textbooks will allow us to constantly update information materials. 
 In electronic textbooks, many types of exercises and examples are considered (given). 
 In addition, with the help of electronic textbooks, knowledge control is carried out – computer testing. 
 At the present stage, distance learning is a very well-known form of education in the world. 
 Currently, many universities and colleges are implementing distance learning methods. 
 The International Information Academy has been established, where the World University has been operating since 1998, and this university exists in three countries – Russia, Kazakhstan and Belgium. 
 The use of electronic textbooks helps the student to consciously master this material. 
 Thus, the development of information technology creates an opportunity to invent new methods of teaching and improves the quality of teaching. 
 Distance learning is a complex form of education that is implemented by a special Information System (satellite television, radio, computer communication, etc.) for the majority of the population in the country and abroad. 
 The information education system of distance learning provides the student with information resources, software, organizational and methodological materials. 
 Distance learning is one of the forms of education in the course of work, the implementation of a person's right to knowledge and information. 
 That is, distance learning is a form of education, the presence of the opportunity to learn, even if the time and place of the student and teacher do not coincide at the same time. 
 If we agree with this definition, distance learning is similar to distance learning, but has no individual characteristics. 
 A multimedia computer is not just a means of transmitting information, it is a device that displays the "face to face" model. 
 At the same time, only the computer displays information-a reference system specification (individualization). 
 What is an" electronic textbook " and how does it differ from a regular textbook? 
 Often, an electronic textbook includes educational, testing, modeling, and other programs. 
 An electronic textbook often complements an ordinary textbook, especially effective in the following cases:
  ae provides quick feedback;
 helps you quickly find the right information, and in a normal tutorial it is difficult;
, saves time;
 it tells, models, and so on (here we see the possibilities and advantages of multimedia technology) that allow a person to test their knowledge of a particular section. 
You can specify 3 main operating procedures of the electronic textbook:
1.training without verification.
2. reading with verification, at the end of each topic (paragraph), the student is asked several questions, this is
questions determine the level of assimilation of the material.
3. control by testing.
The electronic version of the textbook also includes control tools, as knowledge control is one of the main problems of learning. 
Most of the time in the domestic system of education verification of knowledge, according to the rules, took place in an oral form. At the present stage, various testing methods are being used. 
Most people, of course, do not have this attitude, in their opinion, tests do not form the necessary skills, for example, analysis, comparison, etc.  
The use of new information technologies increases the effectiveness of learning, and is also the only means of independent work of the student.
STRUCTURE OF A DISTRIBUTED DATABASE FOR A CORPORATE INFORMATION SYSTEM FOR MANAGING A BRANCH NETWORK
A distributed database (CSF) is a set of logically connected databases distributed in a computer network. 
As a rule, a corporate information system should ensure the operation of several geographically distributed divisions. 
In this regard, it is not possible to use a centralized database architecture. 
Information resources must be distributed. 
Only then will it be decided to choose another ready-made system or create a separate one. 
In this case, it is necessary to solve a number of problems, such as basic software and hardware support, designing the functional structure of the information system, designing a distributed database and calculating the parameters of its functioning. 
This article covers a number of issues, such as the creation of corporate information systems for a geographically distributed network of branches, as well as the design of a distributed database and the calculation of parameters for its functioning. 
The result of the work: 
The structure of a distributed database for a corporate information system for managing a network of branches is proposed. 
Keywords: distributed databases, business processes, corporate information systems, database management systems, data models, replication. 
N an enterprise consisting of a network of branches of the same type and one control center is considered. 
In this case, a distributed database provides a set of branches of the same type of logistically connected database of the Control Center and N databases. 
The main focus is on optimizing queries in the database. 
In the absence of direct communication between branches, all queries in a distributed database can be classified as follows [1]: 
1.request Branch data outside the branch's local network. 
2.centralized request for Branch data. 
3.request from the branch for central data. 
4.request data from the center outside the center's Local Area Network. 
In addition, all queries can be divided into two types, which are executed once (data is sent once) and repeatedly (the same data is sent several times). 
It is worth noting that the distance between branches and the center will be the most expensive. 
They should be significantly optimized. 
When the final data is first sent, it is appropriate to use distributed calculations, and pre-processing is performed outside the remote database server. 
Of course, in this case, the DB server is more powerful, but in most cases it is regulated by speeding up the execution of requests and reducing traffic. 
To increase the speed of repeated requests, the data storage method is used, which performs data integration [2,3]. 
Increasing the number is used to optimize multiple-execution distance requests, as well as in cases where special requirements are imposed to increase the speed of single-execution requests. 
When increasing the number, there is a problem of reliability and inconsistency of data [4,5]. 
Database data can be divided into three groups: 
1.definitions (classifiers, settings, etc.).
2. static data (object state). 
3. Dynamic Data (history of object state changes). 
The characteristics of each group are determined by the choice of achievement optimization strategies. 
Definitions include data that is very rarely added, changed, and deleted. Compared to the entire database, the group occupies a small volume. 
At the same time, the data is involved in a large number of requests and has a high frequency of repeated requests. 
According to the above, increasing the number of parallels to optimize access is more appropriate [6]. 
The use of the same dynamic data over and over again is rare, but these requests are of great importance because large amounts of information are sent. 
Therefore, an increase in the number of primary or combined data was used. 
It should be noted that dynamic data may lose relevance over time. 
In this case, if the size of the database is limited, there is a problem with archiving or cleaning [7,8]. 
Let's look at a situation where the center manages branches by drawing up rules and plans for their functioning. 
In addition, management decisions are made on the basis of standardized information for branches. 
It contains a distributed database model of the corporate branch network management system as follows: 
[9] an – definitions, SD – static data, DD – dynamic data, db – Integrated Data, * - copy, F - branch, O – Center. 
Selection of effective parameters for the functioning of the CCD network of branch network management. 
N branches have one local database of the same type and one local database of the Control Center. 
Branches and the center are connected via ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line — asymmetric digital subscriber line). 
The increase in the number of branches of the central definition is, in fact, sending global management. 
In addition to Global Management, the branch carries out local self-government [10]. 
Let's consider a situation where branches are not connected to each other. 
The resulting report gives a nonlinear programming problem with linear constraints. 
The digital solution can be found using modern software packages. 
Conclusion: 
Thus, in this paper, the main methods for creating homogeneous and inhomogeneous distributed databases were formulated, as well as the method of distributed computing using a three – level architecture and the structure of distributed databases for the corporate information system of branch network management were proposed.
DEVELOPMENT OF A FREQUENCY DICTIONARY OF THE KAZAKH LANGUAGE
The analysis of scientific works in the field of the Kazakh language was carried out. The database of texts necessary for the compilation of the frequency Dictionary has been accumulated. 
A program has been developed for sorting texts in Kazakh-language articles in e-books, news portals, social networks Facebook and VK. 
The practice was carried out using Kazakh-language texts related to various topics. 
In order to determine the frequency of words, a program has been developed for morphological analysis of each word, which determines its initial (root) form. 
When determining the frequency of homonymous words, their use in different meanings was not taken into account.
Synonymic words were grouped into one group, and the frequency of their occurrence in the text was increased. 
During the experiment, a database of texts consisting of 2,153,141 words was collected and the frequency of 210,030 words was determined. 
The results of this article can be considered as one of the attempts to develop a frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language. 
In the development of the program, JAVA programming was used, and all the results were stored in the MySQL database system. 
Keywords: dictionary, frequency dictionary, Kazakh language, linguistics, root word
Introduction
If we had opened any page of the Kazakh language dictionary, we would have looked at the following sequence: "order, Bukhara, this, Bulak, bulyryk, Cloud"[1]. 
From one reading of the words in this line, you can see that each word in the language occupies a different place. 
For example, it is not necessary to speak the Kazakh language all your life without knowing the word "buldyryk", which is the name of one of the species of Quail. 
However, without knowing the pronoun" this", it is obvious that it is impossible to speak the Kazakh language all your life. 
Understanding that the role of words in the language is different, it is necessary to define this connection. 
Knowing that the word" this "is very common in the language," Bulak "is a very rare word, and the use of the words" order"," Bulak " is average, we understand that the role of the word in the language directly depends on the frequency of its use. 
According to Pareto's 80/20 law[2], the frequency of words in a language can be described as follows: 
80% of information in any language is transmitted by 20% of the words of that language. 
It is enough to learn the most common words in this language to understand a particular language fluently. 
The frequency Dictionary of the most common languages in the world was created quite a long time ago, and thanks to this, the number of language learners has been growing over the years. 
Although the frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language has also been developed many times, almost all of them are based on works of fiction. 
And the language is a living organism, constantly in the process of updating. 
Since the XXI century is a time of advanced technology, we have tried to create a new direction in the development of the frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language, using the latest technologies to cover not only literary works, but also most of the Kazakh-language sites on the internet. 
As a result, we have developed a frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language in accordance with modern requirements and concluded that we have achieved our initial goals.
1. scientific works aimed at the frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language
"I don't know," he said.: 
"In the period from 1935 to 1965, researchers of the Kazakh language are less inclined to specific quantitative data, often use words such as less, more, rarely, often, approximate, approximate, regular, without saving, when using a number, it does not exceed one digit," he said. 
[3] research work on the definition of common words in the Kazakh language begins with the frequency dictionary "Abay Tili", published in 1968 by candidate of physical and Mathematical Sciences, Doctor of philology, professor Kaldybay Bektayev. 
The most important feature of this dictionary is the frequency of use of words that were not previously practiced. 
This work of bektayev provides an explanation of the words used in the works of Abay Kunanbayev and includes their frequency in each work. 
The new direction in linguistics was supplemented by significant works of Kazakh scientists in the 70s of the XX century.  
In particular, in 1973, A. Akhabayev's works "Alphabet-frequency Dictionary of the language of modern Kazakh newspapers", K. B. Bektayev and K. Moldabekov's works "Alphabet-frequency Dictionary of the text of children's literature"(1988), published in the author's Association of K. B. Bektayev, A. K. Zhubanov, S. Myrzabekov and A. Belbotayev's works "frequency dictionaries of texts of works of M. O. Auezov in 20 volumes. 
Frequency depending on the variety of dictionaries, the methods of their preparation also vary. 
It is worth noting the great contribution of the A. Baitursynov Institute of linguistics to the development of the full version of the frequency dictionaries of various directions published to this day. 
In order to create a dictionary of the Kazakh language, the institute has developed a single "frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language", which combines Kazakh texts of all genres. 
For the compilation of the dictionary, seven frequency dictionaries were published before it (K. Bektayev, A. Zhubanov, S. Myrzabekov, A. Belbotaev "frequency Dictionary of texts of works of M. Auezov in 20 volumes", "Dictionary of Abay Tili" compiled by lexicographers of the Institute of Linguistics, "Alphabet-frequency Dictionary of the language of modern Kazakh newspapers" compiled by A. Ahabayev on journalistic texts, "Alphabet-frequency Dictionary of the language of Kazakh fairy tales" by K. Bektayev, according to the text of G. musrepov's novel "one video that did not meet", K. Bektayev, A. Belbotayev, Frequency dictionary materials published by K. Moldabekov, compiled by A. Belbotayev, compiled by K. Bektayev, compiled by K. Moldabekov, compiled by K. Bektayev and K. Moldabekov), as well as texts in the style of popular science, fiction, and journalism were combined into a single base [4]. 
All of the above works occupy a special place in the definition of common words in the Kazakh language and in the field of Kazakh linguistics. 
We decided to make a contribution to the development of the Kazakh language by creating a frequency dictionary using computer programs and covering information in the Kazakh language on the internet, relying on the methods used in these works, which are the result of a huge amount of work and research.
2. database of texts necessary for the compilation of the frequency dictionary
To determine the frequency of words in a language, a database of materials is first compiled. 
No one can argue that the main collection of words in any language is literary books. 
We also included the most basic vocabulary of these books, which are available in electronic format. 
At the same time, we decided to cover almost all the news and clicks published by Kazakh-speaking users on internet portals and social systems, which are widely distributed in the country, with the largest coverage area in the Kazakh language, broadcasting news in the world and within the country.
2.1 sorting e-books (parsing)
The main fund of e-books in the development of the frequency dictionary was taken from the online project "open library of Kazakhstan". 
This is an online project that aims to collect and promote national literature and exhibits of national science, art and creative representatives of various spheres in one place on a legal basis [5]. 
In addition, the "literary portal", developed by Kazcontent JSC with the support of the Ministry of Culture and information of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the central communications service under the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan [6], also allowed us to consider the electronic format of many books, articles and publications in the Kazakh language.
Since the authors of most of the collected books, as shown in Figure 1, lived in the twentieth century, the texts of these books were written in the language of that time. 
However, the stock of words in any language changes over time, and when new words enter the language, some words fall out of use. 
Therefore, when creating a frequency dictionary, we did not limit ourselves to the stock of words in literary books. 
By placing each word of this database in the HashSet [7] Data System, we removed duplicate words. 
Of the 2,153,141 words out of 155 books, only 210,030 were recognized as unique. 
We uploaded all these words to our database table with a unique constraint [9].
2.2 news portals
The widespread use of mobile phones, e-book reading tools and tablets, and the availability of the internet have led to the transition of mass media from publishing to electronic form in modern times. 
It is true that the publications with the highest circulation in the Republic have recently lagged behind electronic news portals in terms of popularity. 
Taking into account the current situation in society, it is well known that articles on internet portals should also be taken into account when creating a frequency dictionary. 
In this regard, we distribute information in the Kazakh language, which is popular in our country, the number of readers is relatively high nur.kz [10], i-news [11] and 24.kz we analyzed information on internet portals, such as [12]. 
The crawler [8.11] developed in the Java programming language was used to sort information published on these portals. 
This scanner sorted all the internal and external links of these portals and gained access to the Kazakh-language texts not only of these portals, but also of the external portals to which they refer.
Facebook and VK social networks 2.3 Kazakh-language articles Facebook and VK social networks, which are recognized as the most popular social network in the world, and VK social networks, which are widely distributed in the CIS countries, have Kazakh-language users, we decided to consider the information here. 
The above-mentioned crawler program (crawler) was used to sort the personal pages of Kazakh-language users in these social networks and access the Kazakh-language records of our contemporaries. 
By sorting Kazakh-language content on internet portals and social networks, we have increased the number of unique words in our database to 212,131.
3. defining root words
Although we have collected more than 200,000 unique words in the database, we still cannot immediately create a frequency dictionary from these words. 
To determine the frequency with which a word occurs in the text, it is necessary to distinguish the root of the same word from the conjugates. 
To implement this work, we used the algorithm that Sharipbayev A. A., Bekmanova G. T., Ergesh B. zh., Buribayeva A. K., Karabalaeva M. H. showed in the article “intellectual morphological analyzer based on semantic networks” [13]. 
Our program considered the words” Mom“,” Mom“,” Mom " as one word, increasing the frequency equally. 
Since words made with a suffix change in meaning, the program treats only words with a suffix as a single word. 
Using this method, only a quarter of the more than 200,000 words in our database remain. 
The remaining 150,000 words, the same 50,000 words, were recognized as a connected form.
4. distinguishing the meaning of homonyms, abbreviations
Words that have the same sound, appearance, but do not have any semantic connection are considered homonyms
it is called. 
For example: we met in the 21st year of the winter (J. month. ). 
2. the shoemaker does not come to us (proverb) [14].
This is one of the biggest obstacles when compiling a frequency dictionary using computer programs
homonyms are words. 
The reason is that the dictionary was created in the presence of a person by reading books
when the book is read, the student understands what the word is used in. 
However, the last best
the technology itself is synonymous with words in common languages or something similar that a person can distinguish
but the computer does not cope with the peculiarities of some languages that it is not able to master. 
This
the situation also had a negative impact on the development of our program. 
For example, "Lake and Road
in between..."and" he was bitten by a bee... the word "Bee" in the sentences " Bee " has two different meanings.
Therefore, its frequency in one sense cannot be increased when it meets in another. 
However, this
as we understand, the meaning of the word "Bee" in sentences is different, so the computer can understand
I can't. 
In the created program, the frequency increases as many times as any word occurs.
Unfortunately, our program does not take it into account. 
If the frequency of the word” Bee " is 2000, then what
it is not taken into account that it is used in a sense.
Another characteristic feature of the Kazakh language is the presence of a group of words with the same meaning, but different spelling. 
This feature is especially characteristic of connecting rods. 
For example,” before“,” before " and similar phrases mean the same thing. 
In our program, phrases with the same meaning are grouped, the frequency of which increases, regardless of whether they occur in the text.
5. analysis of the frequency of words
By grouping literary works in the Kazakh language, news, texts on various topics and entries of users of social networks in the Kazakh language, we have access to the database of words of the Kazakh language, which is necessary for creating a frequency dictionary. 
Now it remains to determine the frequency of each of the words in this database within the same texts according to the above rules. 
Thanks to modern technologies, this was not difficult. 
In the JAVA programming language, we have developed an application that takes into account how many times each word is repeated in the text, bringing it to its original form (Root).
Final results
According to the results obtained by sorting the above-mentioned database according to the program developed in the JAVA programming language, the words with the highest frequency were included in the list of words listed below:
As can be seen from Table 1, the vast majority of the first fifty most commonly used words in our language are adverbs, adverbs, and other auxiliary names. 
If you look at each text written in Kazakh, you can see that after each verb or between the members of a regular sentence, auxiliary names are used, which are a constant connecting link. 
According to this pattern, the results of our frequency dictionary also proved that the range of use of auxiliary names in the language is very wide and frequent. 
Program Improvement Project since our program works only in electronic form, all the necessary information must be in electronic form. 
Therefore, we have tried to cover all available books, articles and entries in the Kazakh language. 
Unfortunately, the electronic version of most of the works of Kazakh literature is still not available. 
In addition, among the mass media there are internet portals of newspapers and magazines of national circulation, representatives of local mass media in regions and cities have not yet reached such a level. 
Therefore, with the help of our program, there is a need to increase the number of databases needed to create the most accurate frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language.
 For this purpose, our team sets a goal in the future to develop a computer program aimed at creating an electronic version of books in the Kazakh language. 
The main advantage of this program is that it can scan books in the Kazakh language to create a PDF format and read text in the Kazakh language.
Currently, there are no programs that can read texts in the Kazakh language on the internet, either in public or private research centers.
 Another part of our program used to create a frequency dictionary that needs to be improved is the problem of distinguishing homonyms. 
As we have already mentioned, although it is easy for a person to understand the meaning of homonyms, the computer does not understand the natural features of the language. 
A computer that can scan millions of books and sources of information in a matter of seconds works more efficiently than a person, but the inability to distinguish homonyms and understand natural language can completely change the desired results. 
To fill this gap, we intend to add a new feature to the program that allows you to distinguish between homonyms by considering not only words, but also phrases. 
By constantly improving the program and increasing the size of the database, we intend to create the most accurate frequency Dictionary of the Kazakh language.
ABOUT E-COMMERCE
Recently, in the context of highly developed information systems and technologies in the field of trade and various trade, new concepts and categories are highly developed. 
These are primarily concepts such as" e-commerce "and include" e-commerce". 
This article introduces the history of the emergence of" e-commerce "("e-commerce") and the basic concepts and definitions related to e-commerce, various components of e-commerce. 
New forms of Organization of enterprises are envisaged. 
Examples of firms that implement ways to introduce new businesses (including electronic ones) are given. 
The types of operations that include similar types of business are described. 
The prospects for the use of new forms of economic management are discussed. 
Keywords: e-commerce, network economy, online stores, e-stores, information systems and technologies, business process, information, "soft" goods, "hard" goods.
In recent times, due to the rapid development of scientific and technological progress, new concepts and categories related to the distribution of various internet resources, the penetration of new trading operations, information systems and technologies have entered the daily life of people. 
The most important of these concepts are "e-commerce" and "e-commerce". 
The terms" e-business "and" e-commerce "include" technology for conducting commercial operations due to the widespread use of electronic turnover instead of traditional paper document management " [1]. 
It should not be assumed that e-commerce involves only the sale and purchase of goods and services via the Internet. [2, 3]. 
E-commerce began with money transfer and purchase operations over a computer network [4]. 
But now this concept has spread on a wide scale. 
Now it is considered that trade is a new type of commodity, for example, information in electronic form. 
At the stage of informatization of society, it is important for the production and formation of Information, its full use. 
Information in Management serves the processes of production, distribution, exchange and consumption of material goods and provides a solution to the problem of organizational and economic management of the national economy and its departments [5]. 
It reflects a variety of economic, technological, social, legal, demographic and other content. 
What is the management activity in the information process, in addition, is information as one of the most important energy, material, labor, and financial resources. 
In technology, the processing of primary data on production and economic operations, People, production of products, sales and receipt of goods plays the role of the subject of Labor, information obtained as a result – the role of the product of Labor, which is used for making and analyzing managerial decisions. A typical trading cycle consists of several stages. 
To meet the needs of the market, firms create and produce new products (regardless of whether they represent a thing, Service, or information), create a source of income for themselves across all branches, enter the market with that product, promote it, and provide after-sales support. 
Buyers first determine their need for a product, then get acquainted with the information about it, look for a place to buy it, compare all the options (price, level of service, reputation of the manufacturer, etc.), and only then buy it. 
E-commerce offers new types of Organization of industry, as well as new types of doing business. 
An example is Amazon, a book retailer in Seattle, Washington. 
Although the seller does not have a traditional store with a shelf, he believes that the firm sells all its products over the Internet and organizes the delivery of goods directly from the publisher to the buyer. 
Now publishers do not need to stock up on large stocks of goods. 
Kantara and Software.net he took another step forward. 
This is because all of their products are commercial software that is stored on your computer and used to accept orders via the Web. As a result, the working capital of these companies is completely digital. 
Another example is AMP Corporation, which allows its customer to purchase electronic switches and related components directly from the Web Catalog, thanks to which EDI orders (Electronic Data Interchange-data exchange by electronic method) and does not require confirmation. 
Many types of goods in Kazakhstan, such as Lamoda.kz sold through. 
E-commerce includes not only business transactions directly related to the purchase and sale of goods and services for direct income. 
"I don't know," he said.: 
for example, creating a demand for goods and services, providing customer service and after-sales support, and facilitating interaction between business partners.
 Based on" soft "and" hard " goods, we mean short-term and long-term goods, respectively. 
Here, the very first is understood as expressed in electronic form (information, software, etc.), and the second – as the rest (material goods, various other goods). 
The following interpretation corresponds to the interpretation of the terms "soft" and "hard" accepted in the computer community. 
Commercial activity removes some physical restrictions on the electronic network. 
Computer systems on the internet have the ability to provide customer support seven days a week, 24 hours a day. 
Product orders can be accepted from anywhere at any time. 
What is e-commerce?
The name" e-commerce " has led to the emergence of new terms, categories, and concepts. 
New concepts have appeared: an electronic store, electronic trading, an electronic auction, an electronic display case, electronic money, an electronic payment system, an electronic digital signature, etc. 
Currently, various definitions of such basic concepts as" e-commerce"," e - commerce "are known, as well as concepts close to them - "e-commerce". 
Each author, in accordance with their professional training and based on the accumulated experience, gives a completely clear meaning to these concepts. 
E-Commerce is implemented using internet technology. 
"E" means electronic (Electronic), which means fast in Latin. 
"E" means Economic, which means economical in English. 
"E" is an extended business, which means extended business in English. 
The above definition of the concept of" e-commerce", as well as" Internet commerce", does not fully reflect all the elements of the new concept or most of it, due to the introduction of the current e-commerce system [6]. 
The system presented here does not have a proper service, as well as the principle of the method of conducting commerce. The concept of" e-commerce " is given exclusively to types of trade and advertising activities. 
At that time, a fairly large volume of business transactions (product distribution transaction, trade authority, factoring, leasing, design, consulting, investment contract, operation and concession transaction, other types of business and production cooperation, etc.and joint activities) fell out of this definition.  
"E-commerce is a business approach and any type of transaction that involves the use of advanced information technologies and a communication environment in order to compare traditional types of Commerce and ensure high economic efficiency" [7]. 
E – commerce is not just a trade based on the use of new information and communication technologies on the internet, it consists of a large number of different business activities. 
With the help of e-commerce, the firm ensures the achievement of the economic and financial goals formulated in its mission. 
In 1968, a special committee of the Tdcc (Transportation Data Coordination Committee) was established in the United States to agree on three industrial standards for aviation, rail, and Road Transport. Based on the standard for electronic data exchange between Edi (Electronic Data Interchange) organizations, the results of this commission's activities were reflected [1]. The standard was called ANSI X. 12 (host-based). 
EDI is a link between data exchange, processing, and business [1].
The term" e-commerce " combines many different technologies, including EDI, email, Internet, Intranet (exchange of information within the company), extranet (exchange of information with the external environment). 
E-commerce is a separate case of the e-commerce system. This (wholesale or retail) trade means that the supplier of goods and services offers it at a certain price. 
"E-commerce is a modern business methodology that reduces costs for organizations, wholesalers and consumers, as well as improves the quality and speed of delivery of goods and services" [8]. 
The authors do not distinguish between e-commerce and business, which is a controversial issue. 
At the same time, the definition of the concept of "e-commerce" presented does not differ in any way from the concept described for traditional trading. 
In both the first and Second cases, it is necessary to reduce costs, improve the quality of goods and services, and increase the speed of order execution [6]. 
"E-commerce is a general concept that includes any type of business activity that uses various telecommunications technologies and is carried out electronically" [6]. 
Business actions are carried out directly between firms, firms and customers, as well as firms and state-owned enterprises. 
E-commerce is carried out on the basis of the Internet economy, which is often referred to as the network economy. 
Network economy - "an environment in which an individual or any company living anywhere in the economic system can communicate with any other company or individual with ease and minimal cost, exchange ideas and know-how for trade, or simply for pleasure" [9]. 
Modern information technologies include special information and hardware infrastructure used in the e-commerce system, General Services, Special Applications, as well as the legal structure and relevant standards and regulations. 
The main other types of communication technologies include: e-mail, fax, electronic data exchange technology (EDI) and electronic payments (EFT). 
Each of these types of technologies is necessary to ensure the normal functioning of the e-commerce system. 
The basis for the functioning of the e-commerce system is electronic (virtual) stores. 
"E-stores display the sales representation of the merchant based on the creation of a web server on the Internet" [6]. 
The main purpose of creating such an institution is to ensure the sale of goods and services to other users on the Internet.
The scope of application of the e-commerce system is quite diverse. 
They include business tricks (business tricks) and a wide range of transactions, in an individual case: establishing a connection between a potential customer and a supplier; 
 electronic exchange of necessary information; 
 pre-and after-sales support of the customer who purchased the product in the e-store (providing complete information about the product or service, providing instructions on the use of the product, promptly answering questions that arise from the buyer); 
 direct execution of the act of sale of goods or services; 
- electronic payment for purchases (using electronic money, credit card, electronic money, electronic checks); 
 it is possible to control and track the delivery of products by the buyer, including physical goods, as well as direct delivery of goods by electronic means; 
- forms independent groups of companies that combine their various types of funds to create a virtual institution, provide opportunities for providing products and services that are not available to self-employed firms; 
-implementation of independent business processes carried out jointly by the manufacturer and its trading partners.
"A business process is an interconnected set of procedures and operations that are created on the basis of a well-known organizational structure by implementing a specific commercial (entrepreneurial) purpose of the company's activities; 
also, the functions of structural divisions and their relationship to each other were clearly defined and defined earlier" [6]. 
The sphere of activity in which e-commerce is carried out is also diverse. 
The main areas of activity in which e-commerce takes place include [10-12]:
 e-marketing (Internet Marketing);
, financing the creation of an electronic store, as well as insurance;
 commercial actions, including receipt of goods and payment, order;
, joint development of a new product or service with multiple companies;
- Organization of joint production and distribution of products;
 business management (taxes, customs, permits, concessions, etc.);
 transport services, transportation equipment and equipment method;
, maintaining accounting records;
- resolving disputes and disputes. 
E-commerce: carried out at different levels, national and international (International). The difference between doing business at these levels is that it does not consist of a technical and technological component (since e-commerce is distinguished by a common feature), but of a legal component. At the international level (in comparison with the domestic one), the implementation of the e-commerce system is significantly complicated. 
It is a different system of taxation, customs collection, along with different agreements between different countries, and in the factors caused by the adoption of a separate agreement, there is a significant difference in the application of the rule of conducting banking operations. 
The functioning of the e-commerce system at the national level is mainly related to the representation and network of the firm, advertising, as well as pre-and after-sales support. 
Full-fledged commercial operations on the Internet bring to it the usual electronic method of ordering, delivering, receiving goods, withdrawing from the account and making payments. 
At the same time, it ensures sufficient interaction of authorized bodies in order to fulfill tax and customs duties. 
With the spread of the internet and information technologies [13, 14], buyers will be able to receive information about the product and make purchases without leaving their homes. 
And entrepreneurs get a new impetus for the development of their business and gather a large group of buyers. 
In the current conditions of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, it is necessary to introduce new advanced technologies, as well as new progressive forms of doing business that determine its success.
PREPARATION OF FUTURE COMPUTER SCIENCE SPECIALISTS FOR INNOVATIVE ACTIVITIES
The article considers the issue of preparing future computer science specialists for innovative activities. 
The relevance of this issue in the regulatory documents adopted in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the basic concepts related to innovation processes are analyzed. 
The concept of innovative activity is considered, systematic, reflex-action and independent-creative approaches are outlined, which are the basis for preparing a future teacher for innovative activities. 
The stages of preparing a teacher for innovative activities, as well as reflection in the structure of innovative activities of a teacher, are considered. 
Analyzing the main components of the teacher's training for innovative activities, the goals and objectives of the training course, the skills and competencies formed as a result of studying the course, and the skills acquired, which contribute to the formation and development of innovative activities in the training of future computer science specialists, are outlined. 
It is noted that it is necessary to introduce courses aimed at innovative activities not only for undergraduates, but also for bachelors. 
Keywords: innovative activity, innovative process, innovative thinking, the process of training future computer science specialists, the structure of innovative activity, reflection
One of the most pressing issues in the field of education after the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan was the development of education through the organization of the educational process based on innovations. 
This is particularly noted in the Annual Messages of the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev to the people, state programs for the development of education and regulatory documents adopted at the state level [1]. 
The fact that one of the gaps in the field of education begins with the training of teachers is noted in the studies of many scientists-teachers who conducted research in this direction [2]. 
More precisely, the process of forming a future teacher consists in the fact that it does not model the structure of innovative activities. 
First, let's look at the basic concepts related to innovation processes. 
In practice, the terms innovation and innovation are used side by side. 
The main concept of innovation is the innovation process. 
The innovation process in education is considered in three aspects: socio-economic, psychological-pedagogical and managerial-organizational. The course of the innovation process depends mainly on these conditions. 
The current situation may ensure or hinder the passage of the innovation process. 
The innovation process can be spontaneous or consciously organized and managed. 
Innovation is primarily a function of managing both artificial and natural processes of change.
Let's highlight three main components of the innovation process: creating, creating, mastering, and applying innovations. 
The innovation process, consisting of three such components, is the object of research of pedagogical innovation. 
And we know that the object of didactics research is the learning process. 
Academician G. Yessim gave a comprehensive analysis of the address of the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan: 
Saying that "innovative thinking is a concept that expresses the direction of new thinking, novelty is a concept that determines the direction of movement", he emphasizes that it has three dimensions: "New Thought (idea), new business, hareket and New result" [3]. 
This means that in order for any innovation, innovation, to be created, a new thought first arises. 
And the realization of thought is reflected in action, and when the action is done, we get a new result. 
So innovation means innovation. 
The main indicator of innovation is progressive initiatives in the development of a school or university in comparison with existing and established traditions [4]. 
Therefore, innovations in the education system: 
- purpose, content, methods and technologies of the management system and types of organization; 
- to the style of pedagogical activity and organization of the educational and cognitive process;; 
- to the system of monitoring and evaluating the level of Education; 
to the financing system; 
- educational and methodological support;; 
- to the system of educational work; 
- to the curriculum and training programs; 
-in connection with the introduction of changes in the activities of the student and teacher [5]. 
The second systematic concept in this regard is innovative activity. 
What is innovative activity? Innovation activity is a set of measures implemented to ensure innovation processes at any level of Education. 
The main functions of innovative activity include changing the components of the pedagogical process: 
the purpose, essence and content of education, learning technologies, methods, tools and types of organization, management systems, etc. 
Innovative activity and innovation process largely depend on the innovative potential of the teacher. 
The innovative potential of an individual is associated with the following main parameters:: 
- have the creative ability to create, create new ideas and suggestions, and most importantly-the ability to design and model them in a practical way; 
- the desire for novelty, openness, based on the endurance and flexibility of thinking of the individual; 
- cultural and aesthetic development and creativity; 
-readiness to improve their activities, the ability of the individual to find new methods and means that ensure this readiness; 
-the presence of a developed innovative consciousness (the value of innovative activity in comparison with traditional ones, the need for innovation, innovative motivation).
The process of professional formation of a future teacher should model his innovative activities. 
The basis for preparing the future teacher for innovative activities should be systematic, reflex-action and independent-creative approaches that ensure the formation of the teacher's personality as a whole and its management. 
From the point of view of a systematic approach, it is necessary to stimulate all links of pedagogical education as much as possible, ensuring the manifestation of all components of the innovative activity, their unity. 
Implementation of a reflex activity approach-involves the development of the teacher's ability to perform active research activities. 
At the same time, in order to develop the student's personality in relation to himself and his subject, it is recommended to conduct a constructive analysis, understanding and evaluation of the effectiveness of research activities. 
Independent creative approach-reveals and forms the creative independence of the teacher, brings him to the personal level, which ensures the development of innovative thinking and consciousness. 
The process of preparing a teacher for innovative activities is managed at a certain level, provided that the following specially organized conditions are met: 
- continuity of all stages of multi-level pedagogical education; 
- orientation of training in higher education institutions to a generalized model of training future teachers for innovative activities; 
- psychological diagnostics of future teachers ' readiness for innovative activities; 
- formation of students ' creative activity, motivational value relations to pedagogical innovation; 
- interaction of methodological, special, general pedagogical, psychological and methodological training of future teachers; 
- implementation of the integration of knowledge within the framework of interdisciplinary interrelated, general issues of innovation;
 - formation of innovative cultures and perception of innovations by students; 
 - ensuring the unity of the system-forming function of pedagogical practice with research activities; 
 - research of innovative activity of the teacher and criterion-based assessment of the dynamics of its assimilation. 
V. A. Slastenin considers the preparation of a teacher for innovative activities divided into several stages [2]. 
The first stage is the development of creative independence of the teacher, the formation of students ' ability to formulate, analyze and perform pedagogical tasks of a creative nature, as well as the development of General technologies of creative search: the ability to use previously acquired knowledge and skills for new situations, the ability to see a problem in certain situations, a new function of the object, the ability to determine the structure of the object, the ability to see alternative solutions or their ways, the ability to combine previously mastered methods of action in relation to a new problem, the development of constructive thinking. 
The second stage is mastering the basics of the methodology of scientific knowledge, pedagogical research, introduction to pedagogical innovations. 
Students will get acquainted with the social and scientific prerequisites for the emergence of innovative pedagogy, its basic concepts, analyze the creative organization of alternative methods of organizational work in schools, as well as get acquainted with various educational institutions of innovative type. The third stage is mastering the technology of innovative activities.
Get acquainted with the methodology of creating an author's program, the stages of conducting an experiment at school, participate in the creation of author's programs, analyze the novelty and difficulties encountered, and predict its further development. 
The fourth stage is the implementation of practical work on the experimental site to introduce innovations in the pedagogical process, make adjustments to them, track the results of the experiment, and analyze professional activities. 
During this period, the teacher's innovative approach as a system of views and positions on innovation is formed [pp. 66-72.]. 
Currently, the development of society requires innovative behavior from the school teacher, or rather, the teacher should be actively and systematically engaged in creative activities.
 Innovative behavior is not an adaptation, but the maximum development of one's own independence and activity. 
 A teacher should have the following systematic thought formed: if a person renounces his values and ideals, he violates his moral and intellectual integrity, his freedom has no meaning. 
 Freedom is what offers respect for yourself as a person. In society, there are "special approaches" that force a person to stop innovative activities. 
 At such moments, the teacher should understand the psychological barriers that hinder the implementation of innovative activities, be able to organize effective ways out of them in a timely manner and have the position "I am ready to eliminate any obstacles". 
 In the structure of innovative activity of the teacher, reflection is of particular importance, which is reflected in the self-consciousness and activity of the teacher as a means of cognition and analysis (looking at his own thought and influencing it from the other side and acting on it). 
 Analyzing different approaches to this problem, we can highlight two approaches to the analysis of reflex processes: 
 - reflex analysis of intuition, which leads to the interpretation of the essence of objects and its structuring; 
 - reflection as an understanding of the essence of interpersonal communication. 
 In this regard, the following reflexive processes can be distinguished: self-knowledge and understanding of another, self-assessment and evaluation of others, self-analysis and analysis of others. 
 Reflection is the process of self-recognition of the subject's internal mental actions and states. 
 The concept of reflection originated in philosophy, and it expressed the opinion of an individual about the process of thinking that takes place in his own consciousness. 
 Reflection is not only the knowledge and understanding of the subject himself, but also the determination of others to know and understand him, his personal characteristics, emotional impressions and cognitive assumptions. 
 When the content of these assumptions is taken as the content of joint activities, a special type of reflection develops-subject reflex relationships. 
 From this we can conclude that innovative activity begins with the "struggle with motives", the search for some meaning. 
 In some cases, goal setting is caused by a lack of information about the way the model is built, the conditions of action, which in turn leads to the risk of innovation. Generalizing the above problems, we can note that the process of reflection is independent. 
 The activation of a reflex attitude in the innovative activity of a teacher is directly related to his personality, orientation of self-development. 
 The source of this process is the system of contradictions identified by the teacher in pedagogical activity, so it is necessary to create conditions that actualize reflexive views in educational professional activity, which, in turn, should form a positive self-perception, stimulate the process of self-affirmation. 
 Reflex thinking, consciousness controls the processes of creating and testing innovations in the school, critically explains all stages of the activity. 
 Innovative activity is not always clearly understood, especially at the stage of setting goals and creating programs. 
 It is most often realized in the form of ways and forms of organized pedagogical activity, understood or not understood, spontaneous or conscious. 
 At the subsequent stages of reflex activity, the teacher makes adjustments to his activities and analyzes them as a specialist who is able to overcome difficulties. 
 He understands himself as a specialist who is able to accurately find solutions to complex problems, correctly find solutions to pedagogical tasks, and is able to distinguish between the actions he performs. 
 As a result of the reflection of successful performance of the activity, developing its "self-concept", the teacher experiences a sense of satisfaction, increases self-confidence, and feels freedom. 
 Such teachers gain self-confidence as individuals, they are able to overcome the difficulties they face in personal and spiritual development on the way to achieving the goal of introducing innovations into the school. 
 They freely interact with the teaching community, pass on their achievements and experiences to others, and take responsibility for their innovative activities to students and managers. 
 The teacher's training for innovative activities includes three main components: 
 - psychological (personality-motivational: personal qualities necessary for the desire to introduce new ones); 
 - theoretical (the system of knowledge necessary for mastering new ones, the technology of their implementation, new methods and types of professional activity, etc.); 
 - practical (a set of skills that allow you to implement innovations). 
 The main core of this training is personal training. 
 More precisely, the teacher needs to have the main personal qualities necessary for the implementation of innovative activities.
 The implementation of the above-mentioned issues requires special training. Such training can be carried out through courses taught at the expense of elective subjects. At the Abai Kazakh National Pedagogical University, undergraduates of the specialty" 6m011100-Informatics "are taught the elective discipline" methodological foundations of the use of innovative tools in teaching Computer Science". 
 The purpose of teaching the discipline is to form a unified forecast for undergraduates about innovative processes in modern schools, the educational process based on an individual - oriented approach; familiarization with the methodological foundations of innovative processes taking place in the education system, ways of their effective implementation in teaching computer science; 
 formation of innovative culture, readiness for innovative activities, professional competence of the future computer science teacher. 
 Objectives of teaching the discipline: study, study of the main theories and scientific directions of modern pedagogical technologies; 
 awakening of cognitive activity of undergraduates, formation and development of scientific and innovative views; formation of the ability to apply theoretical knowledge acquired in professional areas based on innovative technologies in practice. 
 As a result of studying the discipline, the master's student: 
 basic concepts and categories related to innovations in education, the main innovative directions in education, technologies and methods of using innovative learning tools in practice; the main elements of innovative processes in the educational process; 
 content of the methodology of implementation, design, dissemination and expertise of innovative practices; 
 methods of designing, organizing and implementing pedagogical innovations in the subject at different levels of Education; 
 knowledge of the main directions and types of innovative activities of the teacher, teacher; 
 ability to use innovative technologies in pedagogical activities related to the content of educational material, teaching technologies; 
 ability to use elements of Innovation Management in the organization of the educational process; 
 ability to conduct innovative expertise of the educational process; 
 development of innovative projects based on examples of specific pedagogical innovations, analysis of their effectiveness and effectiveness; ability of the master's student to create their own innovative project; 
 be able to analyze the experience and results of innovative activities in education, use innovative teaching tools in educational institutions; 
 ability to think constructively and make decisions independently; 
 ability to solve non-standard problems of various content, creatively apply the experience learned in new situations and implement it in practice;
 have the ability to analyze the research experience of researchers and innovative teachers, work in cooperation with them; 
 - mastering the methodology of conducting expertise of innovative practices; 
 master the ability to design author's innovations and implement them in the educational process. 
 Competencies acquired in the master's degree as a result of studying the discipline: 
 ability to use modern innovative technologies in the organization of the computer science learning process; 
 able to independently master new research methods to change the scientific direction of their professional activities, improve and develop it; 
 be able to use their personal abilities to implement innovative tasks in the field of education and create an educational environment based on innovations. 
 Since this course is focused on practice, tasks corresponding to the knowledge, skills and abilities of undergraduates, as well as the formed competencies, were systematically presented. 
 As a result of studying the course, undergraduates got acquainted with various methods and methods of using innovative technologies in teaching computer science in secondary schools and conducted research. 
 Conducted lesson plans based on the use of various interactive teaching methods ("journey into the world of computer networks", etc.), coaching sessions ("the future is with us", etc.), trainings. 
 The results of the research were published in the form of articles and reports to scientific conferences. 
 In conclusion, it is important to form innovative activities of future computer science teachers in the process of professional training. 
 Only a specialist who has developed innovative competencies, innovative culture, and innovative activities can effectively organize and implement innovations and innovations in the learning process. 
 I believe that it is necessary to introduce innovative courses not only for undergraduates, but also for bachelors. 
 This is one of the ways to train high-quality specialists in accordance with the requirements of today's time. 
 A student who can think in a new way today is a specialist who will do innovative activities tomorrow.
 APPLICATION OF CRITICAL THINKING TECHNOLOGY IN TEACHING A COMPUTER SCIENCE COURSE IN A 12-YEAR SCHOOL
In connection with the transition to the 12-year education system, it is necessary to conduct classes using new technologies. 
A modern lesson model is necessary, first of all, in accordance with new programs and standards, to increase the motivation of the child to learn about changes in the world and the environment. 
School lessons as a preparation for life, the search for knowledge of the environment, useful information and skills to use it in real life. 
The teacher, in turn, plays the role of a guide for students. 
Critical thinking technology is one of the educational technologies that contribute to the formation of productive educational activities in education. 
The purpose of critical thinking technology is to develop students ' interactivity in the educational process. 
Among the new technologies in education is the technology of developing critical thinking, which implements effective methods and approaches to the problem and productivity of teaching lessons. 
Key words: technology, critical thinking, educational process, 12-year training, information, skills
The transition to a 12-year education system is consistent with the goals and objectives of the state program for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020.
The leading goal of the program is to educate young people to respect the culture of their country on the basis of spiritual, cultural and moral values that are important for each country; secondly, to train young people to think critically, which contributes to the development of skills and understanding that allow them to be confident and successful in a rapidly changing world, and to apply their knowledge in life situations. 
The program for the development of critical thinking is a joint work of teachers from all over the world. 
This project is guided by the development theories of the famous scientist-researchers zh. Piaget and L. S. Vygotsky. 
The purpose of critical thinking training is to teach students of all ages to critically look at any phenomenon and objects, action and content, and make a conscious decision to choose one of the many opinions.
In Kazakhstan, the project for the development of critical thinking became popular for teachers in the 90s. 
Due to the development of the modern world, the flow of information is rapidly changing, every 4 years information in different areas is doubled, so the main task of every teacher is to master the most advanced methods as a new technology in a timely manner, instill them in the child through search, and get productive results from it. 
That is, critical thinking is the ability to clearly distinguish between effective, valuable, and weak points of information. 
The ability to differentiate between what you need and what you need from a lot of information. 
The strategy of the "Cambridge approach" of teaching is to teach students to think independently, that is, to move from traditional school teaching to non–traditional–constructive (constructive) teaching. 
The overall goal of the program is to increase the interest of each student in the classroom, to develop the knowledge gained from teachers and textbooks, to develop the ability to express their thoughts and opinions on a specific topic during school classes. 
Since there is a teacher who organizes and leads the entire learning process, the program is focused primarily on the teacher. 
After all, if teachers want to form students with a high level of thinking, then First They need to develop their own deep thinking skills. 
Only then can the horizons of attention to innovative ideas open up and be formed in a new way, rather than a one-sided, "only mine is right" belief. 
The main new direction of the program is research through action. 
English scientists are sure to apply their theoretical knowledge in schools and conduct an in-depth analysis of its pros and cons. 
In this direction, every novice teacher is required to conduct a deep analysis and research of the pros and cons of new approaches that he has used in his lessons. 
The seven modules of the program contain a number of general recommendations of a methodological nature that contribute to successful application in school practice:
1. assessment for Education
2. new approaches to education and training
3. management and leadership
4. teach critical thinking
5. age-appropriate education
6. training of talented and gifted children
7.the use of Information and Communication Technologies is the main task of these seven modules, which contributes to improving and evaluating the pedagogical experience of teachers. 
I have seven modules; these seven modules are inextricably linked. 
New approaches to education and learning are socially constructive education. 
"Learning through dialogue" and "learning how to read" are closely related to the socio-constructive approach. 
By teaching students through dialogue in the classroom, they will learn to express their thoughts freely, behave freely in a public environment, and express their opinions in eloquent language. 
Critical thinking through dialogic interaction between teacher and students. 
Children Express and defend their point of view in interviews with their peers and teachers. 
The thought is tempered. 
The goal of constructive learning is to develop the student's ability to have a deep understanding of the subject, to ensure that they can effectively use their knowledge outside the classroom, in any situation. 
The knowledge obtained by the "traditional" method, based on ready-made knowledge, could not be effectively absorbed by other knowledge accumulated by students, so there were cases of mechanical memory, superficial knowledge acquisition. 
In traditional teaching, students learned to memorize the material only up to a certain point, and in any case, they realized that they could not use it in life. 
The goal of constructive learning is to develop the student's ability to understand the subject in depth, effectively use the acquired knowledge outside the classroom, in any situation. 
Implementing my experience at the distance learning stage on the theoretical foundations of the Cambridge approach in education in seven modules, I made changes to my lesson. 
Creating an educational environment for students at the first lesson of practice, drawing attention to the development of learning skills, creating an atmosphere of cooperation in order to improve students ' interaction with each other. 
For the purpose of the lesson, it was considered to teach the creation of group rules in the classroom, self - regulation, and cooperation. 
During the lesson, it was recommended to determine the level of activity of students related to self - regulation, and create a group rule. I asked him to express his opinion on the topics" I want to talk about myself"," my positive and negative behavior " and write down the form of reflection (summing up the results of the impressions received). 
The reason for considering these ideas is that students can get rid of their negative qualities, respect each other, and improve the psychological climate in the classroom. 
Students of the class felt free to work with each other. 
We created an atmosphere of cooperation with the students.
As a result, students learned to obey the group rules, perform tasks in an organized manner, exchange views, cooperate, and freely express their thoughts. 
A positive attitude to school and learning has been formed. 
In order to teach students to think critically, various drawings, scenes, videos related to the topic, as well as other ways, showed students to think critically, explain what they saw, heard, observed in their own language, share their thoughts, argue with each other , as a result, the richness of the language develops, they learn to speak fluently, listen and respect each other, patience, patience, and complete the game.
For this purpose, the basis of professional skills of a teacher must be, first, the teacher's attitude to life, his ideological beliefs; second, knowledge of the subject, instill in him all-round qualities in order to fully convey the game to students; third, necessarily master the methods of teaching and upbringing. The teacher should not only learn a lot, but also be able to pass on what he has learned to the student. 
Another of the most important qualities of a teacher's skill is ethics. 
Ethics is the professional quality of a teacher, which attracts students by applying the most rational methods of teaching problems in each specific case. 
From the point of view of communication with students, pedagogical ethics is a mirror of the versatility of the teacher, his ideological beliefs, culture of behavior, a set of search fruits related to his profession, the most important thing is that the teacher should love, respect students and be an example to others. 
Special attention should be paid to the assessment of students 'knowledge using the model of assessment and learning assessment for education, and to the assessment of students' knowledge using the model of assessment of learning. 
In the traditional lesson, students were evaluated only relatively, and now, first of all, students evaluated themselves, evaluated each other, evaluated formative and aggregate, but it is clear that there are some obstacles. 
If we approach the assessment correctly in all lessons, students ' interest in the lesson will increase if they are evaluated taking into account their merits in all respects. 
For teaching in the classroom, it is advisable to use an identification table, question – answer, dialogue, summative assessment, and formative assessment in the assessment and learning assessment module. 
The most effective aspects of this module are the ability of students to work independently and freely express their thoughts. 
Through questions and answers, students can develop their search and thinking. 
As a result, students ' interest in the lesson increases. 
In the course of the lesson, students can be asked to work independently, to think critically, to draw up rules, as a result of the demonstration of personal computer devices in repeat lessons. 
The main feature of school-age students is their interest in acquiring knowledge. 
To do this, it is necessary to organize the educational process in such a way that the child strives and is interested.
The use of ICT in each lesson, the perception of the student as an individual, taking into account individual characteristics, and introducing them to independent work with the definition of cognitive abilities. 
The use of elements of information, game, dialogue learning, developmental learning, and critical thinking technologies in the classroom also helps the student feel the level of their knowledge. 
These technologies play a special role in increasing students ' interest in learning. 
The student's thoughts are sharpened, he achieves certain achievements, increases cognitive activity, interest in the lesson, and strives independently. 
Using the model of the use of information and communication technologies in education, students used their time in the classroom, visualizing the visual effects, performing them in practice, comparing theory and practice. ICT is one of the factors of increasing the student's interest in the subject, developing intellectual, creative activity, giftedness, as well as a tool for teaching search skills in accordance with the direction of development, increasing skills and literacy for the teacher. 
The effectiveness of information training can be divided into the following areas: - knowledge, as a necessary resource for mastering skills, creates conditions for conscious education, high - quality education of students,-information technology is a powerful tool for improving the effectiveness of the organization of the educational process. 
The main requirement of the information society is to provide students with the basics of information knowledge, develop logical and structural thinking, develop skills in using information technologies as a means of independent development and implementation, and adapt them to the information society. 
The critical thinking program" critical development through reading and writing " currently occupies a special place in the education of students who can use their knowledge and knowledge for life. 
In the work on the strategy of critical thinking, students develop the ability to independently draw conclusions, come to conclusions, choose the most effective among similar phenomena, solve problems, and conduct discussions. It is impossible to be a master teacher without being a good teacher to students-according to the method of assessment for education and assessment of learning. 
Thus, long-term skills are not only the general comprehensive and methodological literacy of the teacher, but also the ability to understand and evaluate each word, so when students say, "you learn to evaluate your knowledge yourself, then you will be able to appreciate each other and others, value your work", students will learn to evaluate each other in general work in pairs, evaluate others using the Jixo method. 
In the method of education and training in accordance with the age characteristics of students, the teacher will need to carry out education in accordance with the age characteristics, taking into account these features. At the same time, it is necessary to consider ways to implement effective methods of teaching and learning in schools in different age classes, which are found in certain rural regions. 
A modern teacher should not only be a deep connoisseur of his subject,but also be an information competent specialist with historical and cognitive, pedagogical and psychological literacy, political and economic knowledge and comprehensive knowledge of information and communication education and information and communication technologies.
FEATURES OF APPLICATION OF APPLICATION SOFTWARE PACKAGES IN SPECIALIZED TRAINING
Specialized training is a means of differentiation of Education, which allows us to fully take into account the interests, flexibility and opportunities of students in connection with changes in the structure, content and organization of the educational process, to create requirements for the education of high school students in accordance with their professional goals and intentions to continue education. 
In this article, the profile level of Computer Science Learning is shown within the framework of the information technology and physical and mathematical profiles of students ' education. 
One of the main tasks facing the Higher School is to improve the quality of mathematical training of students, taking into account modern trends in the development of information technologies and their application in higher educational institutions. 
All over the world, trends in the use of computers as a means of teaching certain scientific disciplines are clearly visible. 
A top-level achievement in the field of mathematical research is the creation of Integrated Mathematical systems (we will call them mathematical packages), which are used in order to maximize the simplification of the computer implementation of mathematical algorithms and methods for the user. 
Keywords: specialized training, computer science, mathematics, MathCAD, MatLAB, function derivative.
Specialized training is a means of differentiation of Education, which allows us to fully take into account the interests, flexibility and opportunities of students in connection with changes in the structure, content and organization of the educational process, to create requirements for the education of high school students in accordance with their professional goals and intentions to continue education. 
At the same time, the opportunities for building individual educational trajectories are significantly expanded. 
The purpose of the introduction of specialized training is to create a system of special training in high schools of general education schools aimed at socialization of students taking into account the specific needs of the labor market. 
The main task of specialized training is to create a flexible system of routes and coordinate the higher level of the school with institutions of primary, secondary and higher professional education. 
At the same time, specialized training should ensure the solution of the following tasks, focusing on the individual: 
- in-depth study of certain subjects of the general secondary education program; 
- creating conditions for differentiating the content of education and creating an individual educational trajectory for each student; 
- ensuring continuity between General secondary and vocational education, preparing students of orientation classes to continue their education at a higher educational institution. 
Currently, specialized training at the highest stage of school education is used on a wide scale. 
Such training allows to take into account the interests, inclinations and abilities of students as fully as possible, create conditions through changes in the structure, content and organization of the educational process for students of higher grades to receive education in accordance with their professional interests and goals in relation to the continuation of Education. 
The subject "Computer Science" in high school can be taught at the basic or profile level. The profile level of Computer Science Learning is expressed within the framework of Information Technology and physical and mathematical profiles of students. 
One of the main tasks facing the Higher School is to improve the quality of mathematical training of students, taking into account modern trends in the development of information technologies and their application in higher educational institutions. 
All over the world, trends in the use of computers as a means of teaching certain scientific disciplines are clearly visible. 
A top-level achievement in the field of mathematical research is the creation of Integrated Mathematical systems (we will call them mathematical packages), which are used in order to maximize the simplification of the computer implementation of mathematical algorithms and methods for the user. 
They include a modern user interface, mathematical problem solvers – powerful graphics tools, both digital and analytical (symbolic).
An effective tool for improving the quality of mathematical education, the formation of Applied Knowledge and skills is the use of Information Technologies. 
From the point of view of Computer Science, a mathematical package is an information technology designed to automate the solution of metamatic problems in various fields of Science, Technology and knowledge, which includes a modern user interface, solvers of mathematical problems and tools for visualizing the results of calculations. 
One of the main advantages of mathematical packages is that they give users time to think about algorithms for solving problems and ways to solve them, freeing them from the hassle of manual calculation, give them the opportunity to present the results of calculations in the maximum visual form, and have a number of functions, including the implementation of various numerical methods. 
Today, there are a huge number of different mathematical packages in the mathematical supply market, such as MathCAD, MatLAB, Eureka, Mathematica, Derive, and Maple, which offer the user the following features: 
They: 
- arithmetic and logical operations, calculation of algebraic, trigonometric and inverse functions; 
- work with derivative discharge numbers in any (with bases from 2 to 36) computing system; 
- operations with real and complex numbers; 
- symbolic and Numerical Differentiation and integration, calculation of sums and derivatives of discharge elements, function limits; 
- operations with vectors and matrices; 
- straight formulas; 
- solving problems of field and vector analysis theories (calculation of gradient, potential, dipergence, etc.); 
- graphical representation of information (functions that depend on one variable ,polar graphs, page graphs, level line maps,veto fields, and more) and a very caring user interface; 
- performing calculations in units of measurement; 
- symbolic calculations and others. 
Among the various packages of application programs, the MathCAD computer algebra system is distinguished by an intuitive interface that allows you to automate complex mathematical calculations and decorate them in the traditional way to a solution in a simple notebook. 
Practice shows that the use of the MathCAD system in the process of teaching the discipline" algebra and analysis initiatives " allows you to solve a number of pedagogical tasks:: 
- increase students ' motivation by using the computer as an assistant in teaching the subject; 
- formation of the most in-depth knowledge and skills, adapting them to new conditions; 
- providing visibility in teaching mathematics; 
- improve the culture of artistic writing and teach you how to process documents efficiently. 
In addition to differential equations, this work includes practical (practical) classes on all sections of algebra and analysis initiatives within the framework of the corresponding course for future Bachelors of Computer Science. 
Since each of the classes is conducted at the end of the corresponding section, it allows you to summarize the material passed and consolidate algorithms for solving typical problems. 
In the course of the work, students are offered a lesson on the topic "derivative of a function", which allows them to get acquainted with the program interface and master simple skills of work, which can be used in the process of repeating the school mathematics course. 
At the end of the passage of the material, you will be presented with problems to solve independently, first using the traditional method, and then using the MathCAD system, and it will be necessary to correctly design the solution both in a notebook and on a computer. 
In addition, the topic "constructing a function graph" is considered separately, which ensures the repetition of all the main sections of the course of mathematical analysis and strengthening the applied orientation of this course. 
The material for working in the classroom includes the following questions::
1) basic information about the features of working with the program required for solving problems on this topic, 
2) tasks for independent work that require analysis and generalization, 
3) control tasks to control the formation of skills of using the program, as well as the traditional solution of problems in this discipline. 
The tool is not focused on a specific structure of the lesson organization. 
It can be used both for conducting classroom classes and for controlling the student's independent work. 
The lesson can be conducted in a computer classroom and organized as a laboratory work protected by a group, or as an independent work decorated with a report.
BIG DATE. RULES FOR WORKING WITH LARGE AMOUNTS OF DATA
In this article, we will focus in detail on the data needed to process a large database and the difficulties that we face in the process of processing it. 
Since this is a large-scale work, we decided to start with simple tricks. 
Let's look for an answer to the question of when and how the term Big Date appeared. 
It was not long before the term appeared, and according to some sources, it began to be used in 2011. 
It was marketers who first came up with and used the term. 
What can really be a Big Date? In our daily life experience, we have read many definitions. 
We use this term when the data volume exceeds 100GB (500GB, 1TB, etc.), which means that Big Date is a large database. 
Keywords: principles of working with large amounts of data
We can't process large amounts of data in the Exel program even on 1 computer. 
Big Date is not only a large database, but also a large number of methods for processing it, and we can collect a lot of information. 
These methods apply to large data sets. 
Based on the definition of Big Data, we can formulate the basic principles of working with such data: 
1.horizontal zoom. 
There can be as much data as you need - any system that involves processing big data must be scalable. 
The amount of iron in the data cluster doubles, and everything continues to work. 
2.fault tolerance.
The principle of horizontal scaling means that there can be many machines in a cluster. 
For example, Yahoo's Hadoop cluster has more than 42,000 machines (this link shows cluster sizes in different organizations). 
This means that some machines are guaranteed to fail. 
Methods of working with large amounts of data should take into account the possibility of such failures and see them without any significant consequences. 
3.data location. 
In large distributed systems, data is divided into many machines. 
If the data is physically located on one server and processed on another server, the cost of sending data may exceed the cost of processing. 
Therefore, one of the most important principles for developing BigData solutions is the data location principle. 
If possible, we process data on the same machine that stores it. 
All modern tools for working with large amounts of data comply with these three principles. 
To track them, it is necessary to come up with some methods, methods, and paradigms for developing data processing tools. 
In today's article, we will analyze one of the most classic methods. 
MapReduce is a distributed data processing model proposed by Google for processing large amounts of data in computer clusters. 
MapReduce is best described in the following Figure 1:
MapReduce assumes that the data is compiled as some records. 
Data processing is carried out in 3 stages: 
Map stage. 
At this stage, the user-defined data is processed using the map() function. 
The operation of the stage is based on filtering and pre-processing data. 
The work is similar to the functional operations of programming languages, where the user-defined function is applied to each input record. 
The map function applied to a single input record produces many sets of key-value pairs. 
A set can give or not give only one record, or it can give multiple key-value pairs. 
What happens in the key or value is decided by the user himself, but the key is very important, since with a single key, the data will fall into the same line in the future with the reduce function. 
The Shuffle stage. 
It passes unnoticed for the user. 
At this stage, the solution of the map function is divided into funds, each fund corresponds to one solution Key of the map period. 
In the future, these funds will serve as revenue for reduce. 
Reduce the period. 
At the Shuffle stage, each value of the fund is entered in the input of the reduce() function. 
The Reduce function enters a value for the user itself and calculates the final result for an individual resource. 
The set of all values returned by the Reduce function is the final result of MapReduce tasks. 
More information about MapReduce: 
1.All map function initiatives can work independently and in parallel, including on different cluster machines. 
2.all Reduce function initiatives can work independently and in parallel, including on different cluster machines. 
3.shuffling in Shuffle means parallel sorting, so it can work in different clusters. 
Paragraphs 1-3 allow you to implement the principle of horizontal scalability. 
4.The Map function is usually used on the same machine where the data is stored - this allows you to reduce the transmission of data over the network (the principle of data location). 
5. MapReduce is always scanning data that does not have any indexes. 
This means that MapReduce is poorly used when the response is needed very quickly. 
Examples of problems that can be solved effectively using MapReduce: 
Let's start with a simple problem with the number of words, the problem is formulated as follows. 
Calculation of the total number of repetitions of each word in a large document. 
We use the Python programming language to create a report. 
The solution to this problem will be as follows:
The Map function converts an input document into a pair of sets. (word 1), Shuffle turns the input document into pairs. (word[1,1,1,1,1,1]), reduce shortens the sum of these units, giving the final answer to the word. 
Referring to one report related to the processing of advertising system logs, the object advertising system has csv-log, and it looks like this:
It is checked whether the Map function requires this entry, and if necessary, it leaves the necessary information (city and payment amount). 
The reduction function lists all payments for this city, calculates the final response for the existing city.
In this article, we have covered several large-scale data processing. 
What is a large amount of data? 
In general, we were looking for answers to questions about where it comes from. 
We touched on the Mapreduce paradigm. 
Large-scale data, [B de detta] - in order to obtain the results that a person is capable of learning, a large amount and a significant variety of ways, tools and methods of processing structured and non-structured data, the division into many nodes of the computer network formed at the end of 2000, made decisions in accordance with traditional database management systems and business intelligence Class decisions. 
In a large sense, "big data" is a socio-economic phenomenon associated with the emergence of technological capabilities for analyzing large data sets, in some problematic areas - global data volumes and transformational consequences in the result. 
In this article, I have relied a lot on theoretical foundations, and in my upcoming articles I will focus a lot on the practical part.
FEATURES OF USING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
This article shows the specifics of using information technologies in secondary and higher educational institutions. 
Also, the possibilities of using information technologies in the educational process are discussed, and modern technologies contribute to the formation of students ' interest in the lesson and make learning more effective. 
The introduction of new technologies in the educational process is not only a time requirement, but also an indicator of increasing the role of the student and an effective way to obtain and assimilate information. 
Information technologies help students navigate the information flow of the environment through the use of new technological tools that allow them to exchange information, gain experience in working with information, and improve their skills.
Key words: Information Technology, Implementation, Efficiency, Process, opportunity.
In the address of the head of State N. A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 27, 2012 "socio-economic modernization - the main direction of Kazakhstan's development: 
"It is necessary to improve the computer literacy of the population, including through various incentive programs. 
I urge Kazakhstanis to actively master information technologies."[1]. 
The mainstay of our sovereign country is the modern educated generation. 
Turning to a new stage is not easy. 
Currently, our society is entering a new stage of development, which is the information stage, that is, computer equipment and all related information and communication technologies are entering all spheres of teachers ' activity and becoming its natural environment. 
The concept of" information technologies in education "is closely related to the phrases" new information technologies of learning"," modern information technologies of learning"," computer technologies of learning", etc.
Since the XXI century is the age of information, humanity needs computer literacy. 
This first stage of literacy begins with school. 
After all, along with theoretical knowledge, the student must master the prerequisites for practical knowledge from the school. 
The main goal of education is not only to update the content of education, but also to increase the effectiveness of using various teaching methods and tools. 
The method of using information technologies plays a huge role in the implementation of this goal. 
In this regard, guided by the words of the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev in the address to the people of Kazakhstan "it is necessary to expand the scope of application of information technologies in the educational process to improve the educational sphere", it is necessary to switch to the use of information technologies in the classroom. 
Information technology is a process that uses a set of methods and tools for collecting, processing, and delivering data to obtain new information about the state of an object, process, or phenomenon. 
Informatization of the educational process is aimed at improving the efficiency and quality of all levels of the educational process by implementing the goals of developing learning through the use of Information Technologies, individual-oriented learning, while informatization of education is aimed at creating conditions for the transformation of cognitive activity and strengthening the intellectual capabilities of students. - it is a mass introduction into pedagogical practice of methods and means of collecting, processing, distributing and storing information on the basis of pedagogical technologies based on these tools. 
Information technology provides the following conditions:: 
 active use of the scientific and industrial intellectual potential of the activities of members of society, accumulated in a constantly expanding print form; 
 integration of scientific and industrial information technologies that implement the development of all spheres of Public production; 
 ensuring the accuracy of the data used, the visualization of the displayed information, the use of reliable sources of information by any member of society, and a high level of Information Services. 
One of the priority directions of informatization technology of modern society is informatization of education – providing the educational sphere with methodological and technical equipment, optimal use of modern technologies based on the psychological and pedagogical goals of teaching and upbringing. 
Features of using information technologies: 
- improvement of management mechanisms of the education system based on the use of automated scientific and pedagogical resources, communication networks;
- improvement of methods, sorting strategies and methods of organized forms of education, upbringing in accordance with the tasks of personal development in the conditions of informatization of modern society; 
- creation of methodological training systems focused on the intellectual development of students, the formation of independent learning skills, the implementation of information and educational, experimental research activities, and a variety of independent work on information processing; 
- development and application of a methodology for developing a computer test program that determines the assessment and control of the level of knowledge of students. 
 The main directions of use of information and computer technologies in higher educational institutions can be divided into:: 
- use of automated training systems in practical, seminar and lecture classes; 
-use in remote communication of students and teachers, in education in higher educational institutions; 
, training using the features of using the information and educational environment in education, depending on the specialty; 
 use of the information educational environment in psychological and pedagogical research [2]. 
Allows you to qualitatively change the content, methods and types of Organization of professional training of future teachers. 
The purpose of using information computing technologies in the system of training specialists of pedagogical orientation expands the possibilities of improving the professional training of students in the new information society. 
It also implements efforts to individualize, intensify the educational process and improve the quality of training at the links of the education system. 
In the research works of I. Robert [3], the following grounds for the use of new information technology tools for pedagogical purposes are established: 
On the basis of information technologies in the direction of intensification of all levels of the educational process, i.e.
- improving the quality and efficiency of the learning process;
 improving the activity of cognitive activity;
- deepening interdisciplinary contacts;
 кеңейту expand the efficiency and scope of searching for the necessary information.
The task of information technology is to provide students, students, and students with the opportunity to independently or jointly engage in creative work, search, see the results of their work, criticize themselves and achieve success. 
To do this, it is necessary to be able to correctly choose the type of lesson that the teacher conducts. 
Information technology is the most effective in the work of a teacher – it is useful for students and students to constantly study the gaps in knowledge and carry out corrective work. 
The pace of modern development requires the creation of teachers ' creativity in a new, research direction. 
Therefore, the XXI century is the century of computer science, that is, the future of our state in the era of advanced information technology – providing the younger generation with modern knowledge and promoting their comprehensive development requires a great demand from teachers, creative search. 
In this regard, daily classes include:
 multimedia (video, audio installations and television, electronic textbooks); 
- computer computer programs, interactive whiteboard-the internet, etc.the use of visual materials gives significant results.  
To succeed in the Twenty-First Century, the ability to think deeply with academic knowledge will not be enough. 
This is because it requires the necessary technical qualifications. 
Therefore, many students, having received knowledge in the field of Information Technology, strive to become successful in their profession in the future. 
Powerful, high-performance software that is fully connected to the internet gives students the ability to create and exchange information. 
Only the idea of seeing their project evaluated by their peers and teachers encourages the student to use all their knowledge to the fullest. 
From all of the above, we can draw the following conclusions: 
the relevance of the use of information technologies in education is due to the following reasons: 
"I don't know," he said.; 
- Improving students ' skills in the use of information technologies and increasing the sensitivity of Education; 
 Providing a wide range of contacts; 
- With the creation of conditions for independent active work of students; 
 With the ability to communicate with anyone via the internet, regardless of their location in space and time differences; 
- With increased visibility in the description of educational material, especially in the modeling of structures in dynamics; 
 With all the interactive features of developing information technologies;
- Student convenience is determined by the need for information technologies at any time. 
 Modern information technologies as a training tool allow us to increase the effectiveness of training. 
 Informatization of education creates favorable conditions for personalization of training. 
[4] In conclusion, the use of information technologies in education within the framework of informatization of education increases the information culture of students and forms the quality of the accepted structure of professional knowledge in a professional context. 
"In the modern world, it is very necessary to provide young people with new knowledge that meets the world standards related to Information Technology," the head of state noted, noting that it is important to optimize and improve the effectiveness of information technologies in the educational process on the way to educating the younger generation. 
The purpose of general education is the formation of a person who is capable of free orientation on the basis of deep knowledge, professional skills, making morally responsible decisions for self – development, that is, an innovative person, worthy of the rapidly changing modern world, who has a deep knowledge of information technology, based on the formation of a personality.
QUESTIONS TO STUDY HIERARCHICAL DATABASE MODELS BASED ON EXAMPLES
The article examines the types of hierarchical database models intended for structuring and classifying interrelated objects of subject domain research. 
These include: all major nodes are equal to each other and lie at the same level as homogeneous trees; 
objects for studying the same domain can be linked to each other, such as parent and child, and so on.like trees with complex connections.  
For working with them and on-screen form representations, advanced form control classes are being developed, the main of which is the Tree View Control class. 
In online mode, various user methods have been developed that allow you to edit hierarchical tree nodes, work with branches, and so on. 
Keywords: information base, relational model, hierarchical model, information base, management class.
Introduction
Databases (databases) play an important role in the organization of modern research, instrumental and industrial information systems. 
The subject area of application of DB covers most of the life activities of people. 
At the same time, the participation of experts in the field of specific knowledge in the creation of the database is very important. 
However, experts should have a clear understanding of the data model, the principles of operation of the mathematical apparatus, which are embedded in the basis of the database.
On the other hand, even professional developers complain that creating a "good" database requires a part of their thinking, not just pure science [1]. 
From this point of view, the choice of the DB model will be of great importance for the adequate functioning of the information system in the future. 
Currently, the relational database model is becoming increasingly popular, but even here there are problems that have not been resolved or resolved to the end.
Given the big "pros" in relational models, their disadvantages are considered[2]: 
"The rigidity of the structure suffers from malleability. 
Although the relational model is different in everyday life,it keeps objects in tables in strict uniformity. 
Missing values help connect with mandatory attributes, but there is always a choice – to remove an object of another type from the constraint or expand the constraint? 
"I don't know," he said. 
The ability to work with relational methods, especially Data Structures, will depend heavily on data composition and statistics.
Many popular data models can be accommodated within the constraints of relational construction, such as hierarchical. 
Where there are not many subordinations, the easiest way to look at the conservative method is to place different levels in different tables. 
In short, the choice of construction depends heavily on the choice of data, and if the data changes, you will have to change the construction.
If such" mutations " are not planned in advance, this is a fairly painful process for most systems. 
Next, we will consider the software tool developed by us, which allows us to solve the above problem from the point of view of classification and object under study, and create a flexible information base (hierarchical structure), taking into account changes in data for solving various tasks in different subject areas without the participation of a programmer.
1. Information bases based on hierarchical construction
Information fund-used for classification, construction of objects under study in an interconnected subject area and representation in the corresponding information sections in the form of a hierarchical tree. 
Further, conditionally abstracting from the subject area, we will use the following terminology:: 
Tree-an abstract information base in which the studied objects are not repeated twice; 
Chain – an object or department that studies an information resource; 
Auxiliary chain-information fund department; 
The main chain is the object of study of the information fund; 
Tree root-upper (primary) chain; 
Mother and child chains-two chains connected to each other, the first of which is higher than the second(the second chain depends on the first); 
Tree level-the sequence number of the sequence starting from the root of the tree and calculating its entire root; 
A branch of a tree is a tree that is subject to one female, many childhood elements; 
Childhood tree-a tree in which the selected chain is a conditional root; 
Database definition-a database table with at least two fields that allow you to store the chain ID and name; 
Conditional tree classification: 
1.monolithic Wood – a tree that does not have child elements and has all the main chains on the same level. 
Example: students and educational groups of universities
This information base has several fundamental features: 
 From the point of view of the subject area, students are the object of research, and groups are the Departments of the information fund for them; 
 In turn, student groups are one of the most important objects of research; 
 Te some groups (students) are at the same level as others; 
 There will be a lot of repetitions in the Information sections: 
duration of training, Department, year of admission, specialty;
 Many other information related to this information fund: 
departments, subjects, teachers, language of instruction, days of the week and schedule time, etc. 
2. a hard – to-connect tree is an uneven tree with two main chains that can be mother and child to each other. 
Example: administrative-territorial division of the Republic of Kazakhstan (regions, districts and localities)
Here, districts and regions are considered as information departments and as research objects: 
there will be cities and villages. 
The city (Almaty, Astana) may be of national significance. 
There, in the hierarchy, it is located in the same way as the level of the region. 
If it is a regional hospital or a city of regional significance (Aktobe), then it is located at the district level. 
Villages are often assigned to a specific district, but there are also villages that are subordinate to the city. 
In this case, the two objects under study are located at the maternal and childhood levels of the hierarchy, and in the course of further software processing, a negative situation may arise: the city simultaneously "passes"as an information fund and the object under study. 
The following negative situation appears in the names of localities. 
For example, in Maktaaral District of South Kazakhstan region there are 4 (!) there is a village and the system does not pass it. 
3. a unique tree is a tree that the auxiliary chain can never perform. 
Example:
The object of research here is sheep breeds, and information bases include the following: 
agriculture and animal husbandry
breeding sheep
- sheep breeds. 
The peculiarity of this information fund is that each section of it meets only once.
2. managing consumer element classes to create a tree
Examples of the above-mentioned tree (information base) are compiled for different subject areas and have specific features, but one software tool was used to compile them. 
Custom control classes have been compiled(expanded) to build a tree. 
[3,4]: mynode is a base class (extended by the base class"Tree Node Control"), designed to compress databases from a table and display the properties of the required tree chains on the screen, as well as to use the online client function mode. 
Among its main methods, we can distinguish the method of generating a unique local identifier of a counter-like circuit; 
myTree is a base class (extended by the base class "Tree View Control" [5]), designed for client tree creation and interactivity (without the special participation of a programmer). 
Its main consumer methods: 
 "Setting the child element from the definition"; 
This method is used to add an element included in the preliminary definition to a tree, i.e. a number of nodes. 
Designed for ease of use. 
You can choose in advance which place in the node, after which node, or which node will have a child. 
After selecting this method, you will get the following selections: 
 up to is an operation that is selected to add an element whose level is the same as that of the selected element in the tree, and its location in the tree is the same as that of the previous one; 
, after - this is an operation that is selected to add an element that is the same level as the selected element in the tree, and the location in the tree is followed by; 
 first child is an operation that is selected to add an element to the tree that is the first child to the selected element, and the level is one step lower; 
, last childhood is an operation used to add an element to a tree that is the last childhood to the selected element, and the level is one step lower;
 callback or cancel is an operation to cancel the method of adding an element to a tree. 
 "Replace the element icon"; 
Uses only the icon of the selected item to replace it. 
In other words, the user can set the icon for each element in a different way, at their own discretion and according to the application environment. 
 The destruction of all childhood elements"; 
This method is used when you need to delete all elements of the node. 
 "Opening child elements"; this method is used to open elements of all nodes in the tree. 
When running the method, it performs opening, starting from the upper nodes of the tree. 
Opening nodes is performed using a recursive function. 
If you do not open the elements of one node, you will not start opening the elements of the second node. 
"Destroy the element, including the child nodes"; 
Destruction of the element, including the elements of childhood. 
This method is used in cases where it is necessary to destroy the node tree itself, including the child elements.  A "full tree display"; 
This method is not executed until the rendering method is executed, starting with the selected node elements. 
This is because this method is used to display all nodes in the tree (fig.5). 
 Show a tree starting with the selected node elements this method is used when the user works only with these node elements, leaving only the node elements that they need, without simultaneously viewing multiple data in the tree. 
This method provides the user with effective management, easy operation by hiding unnecessary nodes, and the width of the work window. 
 DP "search engine"; 
A system created to search for information in databases. 
The search engine is suitable for work, and it is also designed so that you can search for the information you are looking for by section, or find it if you enter several characters of the information you are looking for. 
This allows the user to easily find the information they are looking for, even if it provides little information. 
The search engine window contains the following lines:: 
, Select the section of information you want to search for; 
, Select the word you want to search for at the beginning of the word or in the composition of the word; 
 Search word entry bar;
 Table for extracting found items; 
- Table for viewing information about found items. 
, "Update". In most cases, the update is used when adding a node from the help to the tree. 
Because the newly added element does not appear in the tree immediately, it must be updated. 
The update method, as in the windows controls that you use on a daily basis. 
As the main feature of the above, compilers will still use three in the future to solve specific tasks of the subject area: 
 "View service information by chain" - global and local identification chains, key and reference names, etc. ; 
 "Creating a tree frame table" to transform a hierarchical database table into a flat one; 
, "Migration to the data showcase of the research object". 
This method is particularly important for the consumer, since any object under study needs to be stored and entered in a specific place, taking into account many properties, parameters of different data types (text, numeric, date and list) and the "transition" of data construction. 
But the question and problem of creating a data showcase – as a logical continuation of the information base-goes beyond the limitations of this article and is discussed here. 
myListbox, myCombobox – auxiliary standard classes of controls that meet the conditions for storing the value of the corresponding keys in the "list" and "drop-down list", extended by methods and attributes to display the value of a specific row of a particular table by adjusting; 
myClass is an abstract class that contains service attributes and methods that are used in client functions in the tree.
In the final article, examples of information resources (hierarchical organization construction) were considered. 
For consumers to create them, a class of form control elements has been created to systematize and classify research objects of various subject areas without the participation of special programmers. 
Further study by the team of authors of the article is the creation of a special data showcase in the subject area, describing the object of research using unique software tools that allow you to enter and store parameters of various data types (text, numeric, date and list) with the help of Corrections.
FEATURES OF COMPUTER MODELING USING THE SKETCHUP PROGRAM
In the modern field of natural science, modeling and computer modeling occupy an important place. 
Models practically implement all the attributes of the environment that surround us. 
Therefore, with the development of computer technology, all types of models can be implemented using a computer environment. 
3D graphics and three-dimensional graphics are one of the Departments of computer graphics. 
Using a set of techniques and tools, you can create three-dimensional objects using shape and color. 
3D graphics means creating a 3D model on a plane. 
This is done using special computer programs. 
Currently, a number of them are widely distributed. 
To 3D editors: 
Includes Punch Home Design, SketchUp, ArCon, Realtime Landscaping Plus, Turbo FLOORPLAN Landscape and Deck 12, FloorPlan 3D 12, AutoCAD, 3ds Max, Sierra Land Designer 3D 7.0, ArchiCad. 
To simulate 3D objects, you can choose any of the specified 3D editors. 
The most effective of them is SketchUp. 
The article discusses the features of computer modeling using SketchUp. 
Keywords: modeling, modeling, computer modeling, three-dimensional modeling, SketchUp
In his address to the people of Kazakhstan "the third modernization of Kazakhstan: Global Competitiveness", head of State N. Nazarbayev noted that "IT-educated...it is necessary to pay special attention to the development of information technologies," he said. [1] 
In the field of modern information technology science, modeling and computer modeling occupy an important place. 
Models practically implement all the attributes of the environment that surround us. 
Therefore, with the development of computer technology, all types of models can be implemented using a computer environment. 
About this. N. Wiener, " the usefulness of any machine depends on how deep and thoughtful the task is. 
A person must have ideas so that the machine accelerates the process of testing and implementing them, which is based on a good model of the studied phenomenon" [2], who highly appreciated the model and computer modeling. 
Since time immemorial, mankind has used the method of modeling (drawing a small model, equivalent with similar properties) in the study of objects, processes, and phenomena in various fields. 
Modeling affects a person's ability to plan their actions in advance and make the right decision. 
As a result of the analysis of the model, it is possible to get a deeper understanding of the real complex object. 
Here, a real natural object in reality, i.e. a real object, is called a prototype or original. 
A model is a compact and compact representation of a real object, process, or phenomenon. 
The term" model "comes from the Latin" modelium " – measure, character, character, method, etc. 
Its original meaning was related to the art of construction, which was used in almost all European languages to refer to a character, image, or illusion, or other object. [3]
The concept of a model can be found in many ways in everyday life. 
For example, models of a ball, a machine, mathematical operations and geometric images, a house, etc.a computer model (computer model) is a model created using the tools of the software environment.  
Currently, computer modeling can be implemented in 3D (from English 3-Dimensional) in the environment of a three-dimensional object. 
3D modeling is the process of creating a three-dimensional model of an object. 
With the help of 3D modeling, you can create a three-dimensional image of any object, simulate the world around us, and make it possible to see things that are impossible for objects performed using 3D [4].
3D modeling is performed using special computer programs. 
Currently, we can name a number of such programs:
Punch Home Design, SketchUp (Google SketchUp), Realtime Landscaping Plus, Turbo FLOORPLAN Landscape and Deck 12, FloorPlan 3D 12, AutoCAD, 3ds Max, ArchiCad 17. 
Including SketchUp (Google SketchUp), a simple program that allows you to implement, create, edit, and present three-dimensional modeling. 
Features of computer modeling in the Sketch Up program sketch modeling in 3D architecture, modeling of buildings, modeling of disappeared buildings; 
interactive design; 
landscape design; 
the design of outdoor advertising; consists in the fact that modeling, etc.can be used to print products on a 3D printing device.  
In addition, modeling an event using SketchUp is also an important feature. 
Event modeling (in computer science, programming) means modeling any event or event that occurs. 
Modeling an earth landscape in SketchUp is an example of modeling an event. 
We simulate this using the sandbox tool together with the SketchUp tools. 
Using the sandbox tool, it is based on creating and manipulating a plane.
Planes are modeled as a grid with flat triangular cells. 
Sandbox (Sandbox) includes the following tools:: 
from Contours are used to create reliefs, formed by lines located at different heights. 
From Scratch is used to create a new grid.
The Stamp is used to place and place an object on the terrain. 
Drape inflates the terrain plane, creating a new plane. 
Add Detail is designed to disassemble grid cells by dividing them into small triangular cells. 
Smoove is designed to stretch the relief by breaking the pre-prepared grid. 
Flip Edge is designed to fix parts of the terrain that are not needed.
We can conveniently place the Sandbox tool from the SketchUp program (Figure 1)
Using the grid tool, we mark the desired ground part as follows (Fig.2).
Using the Smoove modeling tool, we mark the place where the landscape will be displayed. 
The marked area is represented by a red circle. 
Its radius can be changed (Fig.3). 
With one click, the area marked with Red will turn yellow (fig.4).
After marking, we stretch it either up or down (fig.5). 
In this way, we will build several hills or ridges (fig.6).
Now, to align the corners, select the section "align the corners (sanding the corners)" from the special section "sanding the corners (sanding the corners)" and specify the "sanding parameter". 
Then the model will look like this (fig.7).
Next, the landscape can be modeled with various objects at will, as in the picture (fig.8).
Finally, using such features and features of the computer simulation program SketchUp, you can simulate various objects, events, etc.
CREATION OF AN AUTOMATED SYSTEM FOR TESTING THE LEVEL OF KNOWLEDGE
Today, one of the tasks facing all educational institutions of Kazakhstan is to increase control over the quality of Education. 
This problem is caused by the focus on bringing the education system closer to European standards, where special attention is paid to competition between educational institutions, as well as quality control of Education. 
The article considers an automated knowledge testing system. 
Despite the large number of software products that allow you to automate the process of testing knowledge, a number of them are not without drawbacks. 
Therefore, structuring a new tool aimed at a specific user is an important and relevant issue. 
This article discusses the requirements for creating an automated knowledge testing system. 
The introduction of such a system will save time for teachers and students, as well as create conditions for the most accurate assessment of knowledge. 
Keywords: testing, system automation, computer, tool, knowledge, control, testing.
In accordance with the latest technological innovations and the program of future modernization and development of the country, computerization systems are functioning at the appropriate level in all industries. 
Today, this issue also covers the above-mentioned trend. 
The emergence of such a new technology, that is, a computer, has shown some effectiveness throughout the industry. 
The computer device has become one of the most effective tools of the consumer and the user – in the modern world, it is becoming a tireless, labor-intensive device of all people in the world. 
Computerization of the currently planned testing process requires some difficulties, but in the end it is proved that high-quality results are needed. 
Computerization of the testing process is characterized by several significant differences. 
Especially computerization of the testing process requires the creation of an automated system for testing the level of knowledge of students. 
The problems of designing an automated system (sequence, content of project activities at a certain stage, etc.) are considered in the works of I. V. Bochkova, M. M. Bunyaev, G. M. Kiselev, T. A. Sergeeva, N. Nevuyeva, O. K. Filatov, E. Bidaibekov, B. Bostanov, etc. [1]. 
At the same time, the creation of software environments (K. G. Krechetnikov), multi - functional training and information tools (S. V. Panyukova), computerized training tools (I. G. Zakharova, L. H. Zainutdinova, E. G. Skibitsky, V. A. Starodubtsev, V. F. Sholokhovich), Computer Training Systems (A. I. Bashmakov, I. A. Bashmakov), computer and telecommunications technologies (P.I. Obraztsov, I. V. Robert) it is shown that in the work on the creation of professionally oriented subject-oriented programming didactic complexes, the presence of an automated testing system is mandatory [2, 3]. 
The main role in creating an automated system is assigned to the programmer. 
Based on the preliminary plan, the stages of creating an automated system are determined (they are also called stages of project life cycles). 
When assembling an automated system, there is such a technological scheme. 
 methodological part  development of the concept, design, preparation of source materials);
, interface development-engineering and ergonomic Department; 
 Shell filling, operation testing and debugging - production department. 
- introduction of an automated system into the learning process, through an automated system within the information environment. 
- interaction between teacher and student – organizational and methodological part. 
Testing is a purposeful process, the same for all observers, conducted under strict control conditions, which allows us to objectively measure the studied characteristics of the pedagogical process. 
Testing differs from other approaches in accuracy, simplicity, adequacy, and the possibility of automation [4]. 
Testing is the most objective assessment approach and meets a number of principles: 
, applying a single Test series to a large number of subjects; 
 static processing of results; 
- identification of evaluation standards. 
In the field of pedagogical testing, there are two main approaches:
- regulatory-oriented; 
- criteria-oriented. 
The first approach is characterized by comparing the individual result with the result of other students.
These tests are designed to solve problems related to comparing, ranking, and selecting the level of academic achievement. 
The second approach is based on comparing individual test results with the total amount of knowledge that students must master during a given period of study. 
These tests are used to solve problems related to evaluating the amount of educational material that the subject has mastered. 
The knowledge testing system is designed to create and edit tests, conduct tests, and analyze results. 
At the current level of information technology development, it is very convenient to use such a system, and in addition, it is necessary to improve the learning process in a practical way. 
Improvement of the learning process is carried out according to various criteria. 
An important component of the learning process is the development of an objective methodology for controlling knowledge. 
Basic functions of quality control of Education: 
Control allows you to evaluate the ability to see an error, evaluate the result of training, and correct knowledge gaps; 
Properly organized knowledge control will help you strive for purposeful work on correcting errors; 
There are also problems of objectivity in the assessment of knowledge. 
The same assessment of different teachers may correspond to different levels of Education. 
This problem can be solved by testing. 
The advantages of evaluating knowledge by computer testing include:: 
- efficiency of processing test results; 
- individualization of the process of mastering students ' knowledge; 
 many layoffs of teachers. 
Nevertheless, it is the responsibility of teachers to write tests and form tasks, and it is known that this task is also not so simple. 
Taking into account the time limit for performing the test, it is necessary to evaluate the quality of the test in terms of compliance with the direction of the course being studied and the capabilities of students. 
The software and computing complex is designed to automate the testing of students ' knowledge on topics in the curriculum of the discipline. 
The system must work on the main Internet network. 
In the organizational and methodological part, the software computing system can be divided into two large subsystems: 
"Student "and"teacher". 
The right of access to the system of automation of testing of students ' knowledge can take the meaning "student", "teacher", "administrator". 
After registering a new user, each registered user, after checking the information, gets access to one of the specified values. 
The teacher places appropriate tests in the curriculum and opens access for students. 
Students have the right to pass a competitive test to get acquainted with the activities of the system, as well as pass an entrance test and study the theoretical part of the topic. 
The administrator has the ability to access and change all parts of the system, disable it, and create a test and theoretical blocker, fix and check student registration. 
To enter a user, the user is assigned a personal name and password at the beginning of working with the system. 
The user allows the" student "to solve the test, get acquainted with the theoretical material, and leave a message to the" teacher "and" administrator". 
The manufactured internal system should provide the user with everything possible:
- passing a trial test for teaching how to work with the system;; 
- familiarization with the theoretical block on the given topic  - passing the test on the basis of a permit issued in the internal system" teacher"; - obtaining a report on the results of the completed test; 
- Exchange messages with the teacher; the system must meet special requirements: 
Access to the security system service must be open only to a registered user; 
Access-access to the system's features must be available both locally and via the internet. 
Reliability-it is necessary to ensure the safety and availability of test data for students; 
Guidance on the use of the system should be divided into instructions for teachers and students. 
Instructions for students should contain explanations on registration in the system and a description of the work in it. 
The prepared system will be designed to automate the testing of students ' knowledge. 
The software computer system can be divided into two large internal systems: "student" and "teacher". 
The right of access to the system of automation of testing of students ' knowledge can take the meaning "student", "teacher", "administrator". 
After registering a new user, each registered user, after checking the information, gets access to one of the specified values. 
The teacher places appropriate tests in the curriculum and opens access to students. 
Students have the right to pass a competitive test to get acquainted with the activities of the system, as well as pass an entrance test and study the theoretical part of the topic. 
The administrator has the ability to access and change all parts of the system, disable it, and create a test and theoretical blocker, fix and check student registration. 
To enter a user, the user is assigned a personal name and password at the beginning of working with the system. 
The user is given the opportunity to solve the test" Student", get acquainted with the theoretical material, as well as leave a message to the" teacher "and" administrator". 
The manufactured internal system should provide the user with everything possible: 
- passing a trial test for learning how to work with the system; 
- selection of the subject and subject in which the test is planned; 
- introduction to the theoretical block on this topic; 
 Pass the test for admission to the internal system "teacher"; 
- get a report on the results of the completed test; 
, exchange messages with the teacher; 
In conclusion, the automated system must meet special requirements:
 security-access to the system service is open only to a registered user; 
 access-access to the system's features is possible both locally and via the internet: 
, reliability – ensuring the safety and availability of test data for students; 
- management of the use of the system is divided into instructions for teachers and students. 
- instructions for students include explanations on registration in the system and a description of the work in it.
ESTABLISHING THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MAN AND MACHINE VIA KINECT
Currently, the processing and study of human-machine interaction, based on the recognition of images of multimedia information and its visual representation, is at the forefront of modern mathematical and software development. 
Developers of such interfaces are faced with the task of using natural methods, physical gestures, voices, gestures, and other forms of human communication with computers. 
The Kinect sensor can be used to improve computer control capabilities through human gestures. 
Kinect's capabilities cover a wide range of modern industries. 
This device has been used in many studies as an alternative to a cheap sensor, monitoring the behavior of the system. 
In this article, we will focus on the depth data of the Kinect camera, the calibration of the geometric characteristics of the Kinect depth, the accuracy of the point, and look at how the Kinect device works.
Keywords: Kinect, SDK, depth, calibration, Kinect accuracy, sensor.
Introduction
Now the relationship between man and machine is developing at a very high level. 
The reason why we say so: 
it is the establishment of virtual connections. 
One of the most important areas of research in the field of human-machine relations is the recognition of movements, as it provides a natural and intuitive way of communication between man and machine. 
Gesture recognition applications are being considered and studied, ranging from computer games to virtual and additional virtual environments. 
Currently, contactless sensors are an effective alternative to expensive laser scanners used in indoor display, surveillance, robotics, etc. 
The development of consumer classes of technologies is a Kinect sensor with a high sensitivity range developed by Microsoft [1]. 
Kinect was originally developed for use in computer games. 
Later, the characteristics of Kinect also attracted the attention of researchers in other fields. 
To create a stable pattern when projecting images, it consists mainly of a diffraction grating, in which the radiation emitted by the laser is divided into several parts. 
Well, in Kinect, the Rays are synchronized through a camera that emits infrared radiation. 
This is how the video movement is tracked.
Motion detection via Kinect
Initially, the Kinect motion detection sensor was designed for the Xbox 360. 
Currently, it can be controlled by connecting to a computer via a USB port. 
Like a 3D camera, Kinect works by capturing a stream of colored pixels and collecting information about the depth of each pixel. 
And voice control and many other functions are processed using the SDK. 
The Kinect device has the following functions:: 
- RGB camera, feature 1280x960, 30Hz, with Microsoft definition, the camera camera area is 43° vertical, 57° horizontal, the distance to 2 meters is determined with an accuracy of 1 cm. 
 Infrared reflector, and depth sensor. 
 An array formed by four microphones. 
According to Microsoft, an infrared camera can see up to six people in the field of view. 
Kinect does not recognize people, it only sends the depth of the resulting image to the host device. 
The software running on the device is able to process data and see elements characteristic of the human appearance. 
Software recognition is able to recognize various body forms [2-5]. 
After installing the necessary software and hardware, you can use Microsoft in the C# application.Kinect.there will be a link to the dll – set.
Development of application programs
When developing an application program, it is necessary to have access to the Kinect Sensor Kit. 
The sensors work with the Kinect Sensor, the Kinect Sensor works as an engine. 
Kinect Sensor is also part of the Kinect SDK. 
It processes commands and sends a message in case of an error. 
To start the human tracking function for Kinect, you need to specify the parameters of several algorithms. 
This is because when the SkeletonStream sensor is running, Caracas data is transmitted without filters and smoothing, as the Kinect sensor has a low accuracy. 
Using the NUI library, the data sent by the sensor is processed. 
The following method is used to obtain data about the image of a person. 
Data sent by the sensor: 
AllFramesReady + = newEventHandler<AllFramesReadyEventArgs (sensor_AllFramesReady); 
After the Kinect SDK completes processing and the sensor sends data, the sensor_AllFramesReady method is connected to AllFramesReady and implemented. 
When managing presentations displayed on a computer by gesture, Kinect identifies three main points and performs actions by changing them. 
We can change the position of the human head and the pages of the presentation with the movements of both hands. The gestures used must be predefined (Swipe_Left and Swipe_Right). 
The Swipe_ left gesture is performed when the distance between the left hand and the head exceeds 45 cm.using this gesture, we move the slide back to a single page. 
Swipe_ Right the distance between the right hand and the head must exceed 45 cm.
Through Kinect, it is possible to identify several points in the implementation of the relationship between man and machine, as well as control them by changing them. 
When writing a program, it is taken into account that the machine can execute different commands for each point change [6]. 
We have developed a program that controls the machine in relation to the change of each point when a person moves. 
Figure 1a shows a human skeleton taken from an RGB camera, and Figure 1B shows a human skeleton taken from an infrared camera.
The accuracy with which each point of images is determined by the Kinect camera depends on the calibration parameters. 
Calibration parameters: 
Focal length ( F ), main point displacement (x o , y o ), lens error coefficients, distance from the reference image. 
Calibration parameters determine the ratio between the coordinates ( x , y , d ' ) of each point in the defined image and the coordinates of the object ( X , Y , Z). 
The first three of the above calibration parameters can be determined using a standard infrared camera calibration. 
Due to the limited bandwidth of the USB connection, images of the infrared sensor are converted to a reduced size of 640 × 480 pixels. 
Getting depth of field information using the Microsoft Kinect hybrid camera is not a difficult task in terms of calculation. 
Information about the depth of the fragment being processed will also help solve the problem of closing the object with other regional objects. 
To provide real-time monitoring (30 frames per second) [7], the algorithm is implemented using SIMD technology on a multi-core graphics processor for simultaneous processing of multiple histograms. 
Kinect 1.0 camera depth can collect data in the range of 0.80-4.00 m, since the baseline between the IR camera and the IR image is very short (about 0.074 m), when the distance from the object is higher, it is important to conduct a quantitative assessment. 
Kinect 2.0 camera depth can collect data in the range of 0.50-4.50 m. 
It is based on a different measurement principle, and once there is a new sensor on the market, it becomes important to assess its potential and weaknesses. 
The direct calibration procedure was performed to assess the shortcomings of Kinect variants (depending on the distance of the object). 
The sensors are located at a certain distance from the wall selected as the base plane. 
Reference distances were measured using distance meters located at both ends of the sensor. 
This way, you can limit the scrolling effects. 
For each position, a depth of 100 images is obtained and stored as 16-bit images (0.001 m) to achieve data fragmentation [8].
Kinect can also consider facial expressions, facial expressions. 
By dividing a person's face into parts, Kinect can detect human emotions (fig.2A, 2B). 
Kinect features can be used to determine people's moods. 
For example, people who do not want to meet a psychologist face-to-face can take a session while sitting on the other side of the camera.
Conclusion
In the era of rapid development of modern information technologies, man and machine work closely together. 
We should pay more attention to this virtual activity, so that we can get faster and more optimal results over time. 
In our work in this direction, the use of Kinect is the main interface in the development of human – machine relations. 
Human gestures (analysis of human gestures) are the main interface in the area of human-machine relations in recent years. 
It is widely used in medicine, telecommunications, and the invention of games and animations.
APPLICATION OF NEW INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES IN EVIDENCE-BASED MEDICINE
The article discusses the use of new information technologies in evidence-based medicine. 
Medicine still remains one of the least computerized industries. 
The introduction of new technologies will improve the quality of medical care and significantly reduce costs. 
Currently, there are many types of specialized medical software tools. 
Doctors should master the essence of the classification of Information Systems. 
Currently, evidence-based medicine is the main decision-making tool for 80% of medical professionals in Europe and the United States. 
Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the time, every specialist should be able to effectively use new information technologies in their work. 
Future specialists will be introduced to the best practices of innovative doctors, training in the use of methods and techniques, writing research papers, implementing medical cooperation, etc., which will strengthen their medical knowledge, skills and abilities.  
New information technologies have a special place in solving these situations. 
In the future, mastering the high technologies of civilized countries, entering the world educational space is the goal of today.
Keywords: evidence-based medicine, medicine, doctor, internet, expert, informatization, information technology.
Medicine still remains one of the least computerized industries. 
The introduction of new technologies will improve the quality of medical care and significantly reduce costs. 
At the same time, the discussion of the reliability of information and opportunities, not only related to health, but also to the professional community and knowledge of new technologies, will allow us to increase the speed of dissemination, access to the information resources of each country. 
Currently, there are many types of specialized medical software tools. 
The key group of healthcare informatization is the information system. 
Therefore, doctors should master the essence of the classification of Information Systems. 
Currently, evidence-based medicine is the main device for deciding on the choice of medical technology for 80% of medical professionals in Europe and the United States [1]. 
And when making a decision, it is not the decision of an authoritative person or previous traditions, but only a responsible and competent medical professional (scientist, doctor, pharmacist) who is informed and able to think critically. 
Therefore, in accordance with the requirements of the time, every specialist should be able to effectively use new information technologies in their work. 
Currently, the creation of an information space is one of the innovations in the education system in the country. 
In the context of informatization, the amount of knowledge and skills that students need to master is increasing day by day, and the content is changing. 
In the field of education, effective approaches to improving the quality of education through the use of information and communication technologies, modernizing the educational process are being used and further improved. 
The formation of an information society is becoming a necessary condition for the exchange of information and communication between people in accordance with modern requirements in the period of widespread use and rapid development of information and communication technologies. 
The main requirement of the information society is to provide students with the basics of information knowledge, develop logical thinking and structural thinking, develop skills in the use of information technologies, and foster the ability to adapt to the course of the century and the growth of information literacy of the student's society, i.e. adaptation to the information society.
Information technology is a set of mathematical and cybernetic approaches and modern technical means that ensure the collection, storage, processing and transportation of information on the basis of modern computer equipment. 
Functions of the general learning process in the context of information and communication technologies: 
it is determined by the development of learning, upbringing, development, information forecasting and creative abilities. 
Evidence - based medicine should be considered not only in the context of medical practice in a modern form, but also in the fact that it forms a methodological basis for the formation of a modern Doctor's attitude to life and solving the problems that arise in the daily work of a doctor [1]. 
In this situation, the role of medical universities in determining the training strategy of specialists increases to a certain extent. 
It is effective to introduce the basics of evidence-based medicine into the healthcare system during pre-graduate training of students and advanced training of doctors. 
In order to study Evidence-Based Medicine and apply its basics in everyday work, a doctor will need continuous training and a systematic approach. 
The solution of general questions inherent in medicine should be aimed at studying the methodology of work. 
Knowledge in evidence –based medicine-the ability to make proven decisions based on certain conditions. 
In the future, clinical research and medical education should focus on a single system of evidence-based decisions. 
Evidence-based medicine is the acquisition of scientific results as a result of application and practice in medical research. 
The basic principle of evidence-based medicine is that it gives practical doctors the ability to use information correctly, what articles and instructions can be trusted. 
Evidence-based medicine (DM ) – information technology of processing, the ability to use and transmit medical information, the influence of the ability to use useful evidence for medical personnel in clinical practice using the same methods [2]. 
In order to get an analysis of modern medical biological data, it is necessary that researchers not only read medical articles, but also be able to apply the results of the study in practice and know the DM for accurate data. 
The purpose of evidence - based medicine is to be able to show the correct result, not to harm the health of patients, without using unsuitable but expensive medical devices. 
Evidence-based medicine is one of the most effective ways to restore and maintain health. 
The concept of" evidence medicine " was coined in 1990 by scientists from McMaster University in Toronto. 
The dm method allows you to quickly search for sources accessible to the doctor and allows you to find information on emerging requests, critically evaluate the received information and use it for the patient [3]. 
The relationship between the doctor and the patient is based on a process of decision-making - a simple answer to a specific clinical question from all levels of clinical practice, depending on the patient's state of Health. 
Therapeutic, diagnostic and preventive issues that arise in the daily work of the doctor are resolved at the level of the clinical situation. 
The question that is asked to the heads of medical institutions and administrative organizations of healthcare, the creation of clinical organizations refers to the clinical strategy. 
DM, widely used in the world practice, improves the quality of medical care provided, contributes to the improvement of medical practice.
The purpose of evidence – based medicine technology is to obtain information for analysis and for its introduction to a specific patient. 
When solving a clinical problem, a medical professional risks relying on familiar sources of Information (his own experience, monographs and references, colleagues), that is, on the patient, using outdated and outdated information technologies, methods that are not currently used in the world. 
The ability to use computer technology will give you a high-quality answer. 
The advent of electronic medical databases, electronic versions of journals, multimedia training programs, libraries on laser disks, and the Internet has expanded the capabilities of doctors. 
And the following are the main tools of automation and evidence-based medicine technology through Medline, Cochrane Library, Up-to-Date, EMBASE, OVID medical databases, where you can see the full state of the medical problem in the world. 
In order to solve the problem of specific patients, which constitutes the technological process of evidence-based medicine, the doctor must know the set of operations and be able to apply it to his practice [2]. 
The correct formulation of a clinical question is an important principle of evidence-based medicine. 
The strategy of the search and the result will depend on this. 
A correctly posed question clearly illustrates the problem, and the requested information has a well-known structure: 
patient or problem, intervention or prognosis, comparison, conclusion. 
The next step is to determine the type of question (diagnosis, treatment, prognosis) that affects the search strategy. 
Then there is a direct search stage that looks at a reliable professional database. Critical information analysis is another important principle of evidence-based medicine. 
The true standard of the study is considered to be controlled trials of comparable patient groups, in which one or more studied symptoms are observed, and the distribution of groups is random. 
After evaluating the accuracy of the information, it is necessary to develop a strategy for its inclusion in a specific clinical situation and in the patient. 
And also evaluate the effectiveness of the treatment method or diagnosis used. 
Thus, a doctor should be aware of the latest achievements of Medicine in improving the quality of medical care, in order to find new scientific information and think critically about it to solve the problem of prevention and diagnosis [3]. 
The use of new modern technologies in evidence-based medicine in a global sense leads to a reduction in the frequency of medical errors, improving the quality and efficiency of medical care, saving resources and improving the health of the population. 
Information technologies are an indispensable tool that provides access to new clinical information and ensures the implementation of ethical declarations. 
It's just a tool. 
But the current quality of this tool allows you to solve almost any problems.
Finally, the use of information technologies not only provides many channels for transmitting information, but also creates conditions in which different environments complement each other. 
Information technology, integrated with other technologies, is an indicator of the dynamic development of the teacher, a qualified understanding of the process of teaching and learning. 
According to experts, for the development of society, at least a third of the population should be able to work with modern information technologies. 
It is necessary to use absolutely new information technologies that will actively provide doctors of Kazakhstan with access to data. 
Today, huge amounts of resources can be accessed openly through the World Wide Web. 
However, unfortunately, the experience of working on the Internet indicates poor and poor knowledge of Information Technology. 
Therefore, any doctor who considers himself at the level of an" expert " should not only be willing to work for the benefit of the country, but also be able to work with modern information technologies. 
Only then will we know that our medicine in Kazakhstan will develop rapidly. 
We live in a peaceful country, a country that attaches great importance to the improvement of state education. 
The goal of general education is to form a person who is able to freely navigate on the basis of deep knowledge, professional skills, make morally responsible decisions for self – development, that is, to form an innovative personality based on the formation of a person, deeply familiar with information technology, worthy of a rapidly changing modern era. 
Being competitive directly depends on education. 
We are using new information technologies that have long been used by other prosperous countries in connection with new technologies, new civilized development. 
This is a symbol of our Kazakhstan's progress. 
In scientific education, there are many opportunities for new information technologies.
With the use of new information technologies, it can freely expand into the educational space, introducing it into evidence-based medicine. 
The use of new information technologies in the educational process, including in practical classes, depends on the personal experience of the teacher, his creative search. 
The organization of new information technologies in evidence-based medicine will allow us to transform the form of training, introduce new elements into traditional teaching methods. 
This increases students ' interest in the subject.
THE ROLE OF EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES IN THE FORMATION OF INFORMATION COMPETENCIES OF STUDENTS
The article is devoted to the problem of forming information competencies of students in extracurricular activities. 
The modern education system requires the formation of not only a specific set of knowledge, skills and abilities, but also competencies among school graduates. 
One of the most important competencies is information competence, which is expressed in the ability to see the problem and find ways to solve it. 
The formation of competencies can be carried out in the course of work organized by students outside of the classroom. 
Teaching students to work with various sources of information in extracurricular activities leads to a deeper and stronger knowledge of the topics they study. 
In addition, in extracurricular activities, combined with the knowledge gained in several disciplines, you can perform tasks that need to be solved. 
The article emphasizes the importance of extracurricular activities in the problem of forming students ' information competencies through such tasks.
Keywords: competence, information competence, extracurricular activities, formation of information competence.
The current state of intensive scientific, innovative and socio-economic development in the world has also led to many changes in the education system. 
Today, the most important task of the school is to prepare a competent, competitive student who can not only adapt to the rapidly developing Information Society of Science and technology, but also contribute to the development of society. 
A prerequisite for the development of any society is the formation of a holistic system of education and training. 
The educational system has a great influence on the development of world civilization[1]. 
Therefore, the changes taking place in society also lead to changes in the education system. 
One of the changes is the education of a person who has developed knowledge, competencies that can effectively plan their activities, use the acquired knowledge, skills and abilities in their cognitive activities in their life practice, and establish effective relationships with people of different groups to achieve their goals and results. 
The term" competence " was introduced in the middle of the XX century by N. Chomsky, who initially gave the concept of abilities necessary for performing a specific language activity in his native language.  
Competence not only reflects the result of learning (knowledge and skills), but also reflects the system of creative experience and value orientations of students. 
Competence is the presence of knowledge, skills, business, and willpower in a person. 
It is formed primarily in the process of teaching at school. 
Competence - the ability of a student to apply the acquired knowledge and skills in practice, in everyday life to solve any practical and theoretical problems [2]. 
Many scientists who have studied the concept of competence give different definitions. 
In most literature, competence includes the concepts of" knowledge"," skill", and" skill", but it is not just a set of knowledge, skills, or skills. 
Competence - the ability to manifest itself in the creative activity of students along with the result of learning. 
Information competence occupies a special place in result-oriented education. 
Information competence – the ability to search, store, transform information with the help of information and communication technologies, identify the main ones from a large number of information, and apply the transfer capabilities in practice. 
The problem of forming student competencies, which is one of the main goals of the education system, can be organized not only during classes, but also through additional extracurricular activities. 
We say that extracurricular activities are an integral part of the educational process in the school, which organizes extracurricular activities of students. 
Extracurricular activities are various activities and activities organized by teachers outside of school hours, ensuring the adaptation of the child's personality to life in society. 
Extracurricular activities are various educational activities carried out by the school during extracurricular hours and do not deviate from the scope of educational programs [3].
The purpose of these extracurricular activities is to ensure that the state educational standard meets the goals set by the educational system, develop students ' abilities, and educate the student as a person who meets the requirements of society. 
The modern education system requires the formation of not only a specific set of knowledge, skills and abilities, but also competencies among school graduates. 
Competence consists of several sets of competencies related to different areas of activity. 
One of the key competencies among competencies is information competence, which is expressed in the ability to see the problem and find ways to solve it. 
The formation of key competencies can also be implemented in the course of work organized outside the classroom. 
Learning to work with different sources of information leads to a deeper and stronger knowledge of the topics studied by students. 
In addition, in extracurricular activities, combined with the knowledge gained in several disciplines, you can perform tasks that need to be solved. 
This is not only a personal fund of knowledge gained by students in each subject, but also teaches them how to use it in solving problems in their life experience, that is, form information competencies. 
In extracurricular activities, when performing tasks such as analyzing the text of topics passed in mathematics and physics lessons, plotting graphs, drawing tables, drawings and formulas, etc., the ability to express their opinions, express their opinions, and on the basis of which they have the opportunity to gain new knowledge is formed.  
Students independently learn to define physical concepts, generalize, predict and test physical laws, and create an algorithm for solving problems. 
All this teaches students to learn the knowledge gained from the subject on their own, no matter what type of information they have at any time in their lives. 
In the course of completing such tasks, students participate in the processes of transportation, processing, presentation, use and storage of information. 
It can be seen from this that extracurricular activities occupy a special place in the formation of information competencies of students. 
The methodology of conducting such extracurricular activities implies work on rational ways of transmitting and presenting information. 
When planning extracurricular activities, it is necessary to take into account the age characteristics and features of the educational material. 
Educational and informational skills and abilities developed by students in the course of working with information in extracurricular activities: 
- Presentation (Presentation)of information in oral and written form; 
- Compliance with narrative logic in the presentation of information; 
, the ability to provide evidence as additional information to confirm that the available information is sufficiently clear or true; 
- search for information using bibliographic publications, electronic information systematization tools, etc. ; 
 conducting a search for information using catalogs, sources of information, etc.; 
, clear definition of search parameters when using the source of information; 
- highlight the main, key words in the definition to formulate the main idea in the text; 
- Transformation of information as the second type of information sources: plan, algorithm, flowchart, theses, resume, synopsis, abstract, abstract, abstract; 
- Disclosure of information: "reading"formulas, equations; 
- Recoding and presenting visual information in reverse graphic, symbolic and other forms.
The organization of training of educational materials is carried out using various objects-information carriers. 
The difficulty of objective perception by students during the first study of physics is not only due to the abundance of new information, but also due to the emergence of new objects used to convey this information to students, and the mutual correspondence of these objects. 
Equations known in mathematics are transformed into physical formulas, which are not only mathematical, but also physical information. 
Graphs and tables are filled with physical content. 
There are physical quantities, instruments, and units of measurement that students have never worked with before. 
Physical content can be supplemented with additional texts, images, drawings, and examples that students read. 
The text of the report submission can be considered as an object that carries specific information. 
It follows how correctly and fully the student can perceive this information, and then the success of learning to solve the problem is shown. 
Objects-in order to organize work with information carriers, it is necessary to first identify objects and assign tasks for highlighting and using information for these objects. 
For example. 
What amount of heat is released to the surrounding bodies when cooling a brick furnace weighing 1.5 T on a Celsius scale from 30 to 20 degrees [4]? 
Questions for students: what physical phenomenon is mentioned in the report?
Name the physical quantities found in the report? 
What letters are used to denote them? 
What Formula connects these values? 
What physical quantity has a size of 1 ton? 
How is this value set in the SI system?
By answering these questions, students consolidate their knowledge on this topic, as well as learn to analyze the report. 
A special place in the formation of information competencies of students is occupied by one of the extracurricular activities – the organization of the conference. 
It is characterized by the following functions:: 
 Expand and supplement your knowledge on the issue under consideration  ; 
, Working with information sources; 
 Preparation of a report (notification) ; 
, Preparing an abstract; 
- Training in independent work with various sources of information. 
Educational conferences are held with students of different classes. 
The managerial role is played by the teacher. 
In contrast to the conference, students gain new knowledge in the process of preparing for the conference from literature (conventional and electronic) and other reports of students participating in the conference. 
After each speaker, the topic is discussed and opinions are heard. 
Summarizing the results of the conference, questions on the topic are asked, discussed, supplemented, and the work of students participating in the conference is evaluated individually. 
The educational essence of the conference is that in preparation for the conference, students get used to independently searching for information with literature and electronic sources. 
Uses the acquired knowledge to solve a specific problem, i.e. develops information competencies in general. 
Holding conferences helps to determine the aptitudes and abilities of students in scientific and technical knowledge, to increase their interest. 
The conference should be devoted to the history of the development of Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, their relationship in the historical development, the history of the emergence of innovations in each field of Science, the innovations introduced into the field of science by the great scientists who form the field of Science, etc. 
For example:, history of Mathematics; 
, Development of Arabic mathematics; 
, Great mathematicians; 
"I don't know," I said.; 
"I don't know," he said.; 
"I don't know," he said.; 
- Solving Al-Farabi problems using ICT tools; 
 I don't know, "he said," but I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. 
In short, it can be seen that it contributes to the formation of students ' information competence, their own vision, improving their knowledge, and applying the acquired knowledge in their life experience. 
In addition, students can create their own products using ICT tools in their extracurricular activities. 
When created using computer tools, the following can be understood as a product [5]: 
 multimedia presentation; 
, a physical model built on some ready-made program; 
- a computer program created by the student himself. 
The first and second task can be completed by the student without any problems. 
In general, it can be done practically by every student, and the third is difficult to do without the help of a computer science teacher. 
Usually, when creating a presentation, it is limited to text and images. 
Well, many presentation features: 
ready-made and prepared animation in some image editor, word puzzles that are animated or created using macros, interactive tests, and so on. 
From this, there is reason to believe that it is possible to fully cover the material when creating presentation products. 
And the following computer programs can be proposed for students to use in the preparation of their products in the classroom or outside of the classroom: 
- flash animated videos; 
- Delphi or Visul Basic 
- Adobe Flash 
- GeoGebra, etc. 
With proper organization of extracurricular activities, along with information competence, students ' organizational abilities and activity increase. 
Valuable moral qualities are formed. 
The foundation of an active life is laid. 
Extracurricular activities organized in each subject contribute to the development of students ' creative thinking and independent search work. 
In this regard, the student not only learns the knowledge set out in the program, but also comprehensively searches and develops his horizons. 
Extracurricular education is aimed at further developing and continuing all work in the field of education and upbringing. 
On the way to its implementation, the teacher must choose the most advanced methods and be able to use them in practice. 
All these measures allow students to form their information competence in extracurricular activities with the help of ICT tools. 
In conclusion, extracurricular activities make a significant contribution to the strengthening of students ' education and knowledge, and are of great importance in educating a student as a person armed with modern knowledge, with formed information competence.
COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF STUDENTS ' LEVEL OF ASSIMILATION OF EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL
The direct purpose of any academic discipline is to teach the student the system of knowledge and acquire specific skills and abilities. 
At the same time, the acquisition of skills and skills is carried out on the basis of the activity acquisition of knowledge, which determines the corresponding skill and skill, that is, how to perform a particular skill and skill. 
The educational process consists of several stages. 
Each fixed knowledge describes the state of a particular level of assimilation. 
The article provides a comparative analysis of the level of students ' assimilation of educational material, the research of many scientists in the field of domestic and foreign pedagogy, in particular B. Bloom, V. P. Bespalko, V. P. Simonov and I. Ya.Confederatov, V. I. Teslenko and V. Kraevsky, I. Ya.Lerner, M. N. Skatkins, as well as S. L. Rubinstein. 
The effectiveness of using four levels to control students ' assimilation of educational material is justified. 
Keywords: knowledge, acquisition, level, taxonomy, control, mastering process
Currently, Kazakhstan is undergoing major changes in the education system in order to enter the world educational space, a new education system has been created, and the issue of transition from continuous growth to the stage of sustainable development is being raised. 
One of the main tasks facing the teacher in the course of teaching activities is the issue of comprehensive, more objective and objective control of the student's knowledge and qualifications in the subject studied. 
Control tasks assigned to students in the process of monitoring the results of learning should not be easy or very complex, so the problem of level-based construction of control tasks taking into account the individual characteristics of the student and the specifics of the subject being studied when developing control tasks is becoming relevant today. 
Today, one of the main tasks of teaching practice is to identify the problems of measuring and controlling the formation of knowledge, skills and abilities in students. 
At the same time, it is planned to abandon the traditional organization of the educational process, in which the content of knowledge specified in the educational programs is determined and focuses on the expected results, reflecting the areas of knowledge and aspects of activity, that is, students "know", "understand", "apply", "analyze", "summarize", "evaluate". 
The purpose of the training is to determine the level of knowledge, skills and abilities of the student in accordance with the curriculum, and the purpose of the control is to answer the question of what the student should know and be able to do. 
Within the framework of Educational Technology, B. Bloom developed and proposed his own taxonomy for pedagogical purposes for the first time in 1956 [1]. 
Taxonomy (from the Greek taxis – location, Order, Order and nomos - law) – usually has a hierarchical order (Organic World, Geography objects, geology, linguistics, ethnography, etc.), a theory of systematization and classification of a complex organized territory of truth (being, Reality, Reality). 
The first taxonomy, which includes cognitive territory, consists of six categories of goals that are internally separated from each other: 
- know (specific material, terminology, facts, definitions, criteria, etc.) 
- understanding (interpretation, interpretation, extrapolation); 
- application;
- analysis (principles of interaction, construction, construction); 
- generalization (development of a possible service system and plan, obtaining an abstract access system); 
- evaluation (making decisions based on existing data, making decisions based on external criteria). 
Bloom's taxonomy has been repeatedly tested by scientists, because it has been concluded that specific learning outcomes (know, understand, apply) have been mixed into the categories necessary for students to succeed (analysis, accumulation, evaluation). 
Depending on the qualification of students to master the educational material and apply their knowledge in practice, V. P. Simonov and I. Ya.Confederatov divide the level of mastering the educational material as follows [2], [3]: 
The level of differentiation (or recognition) of the first discipline – characterizes the ability to know about the main features and properties of the subject, process, situation, as well as distinguish them from other disciplines, processes, etc. 
The second level of memorization is that the student knows, remembers and can speak the educational material. 
This level is sufficient to master specific facts, quantitative indicators, rules, and axioms that do not require understanding and explanation. 
The third level of understanding is that the student can not only tell the educational material, but also understand its meaning and express it in his own words, explain it, change it, and give a specific example. 
The fourth level of application is the ability to use the acquired, thought – out and approved knowledge to solve typical problems. 
The fifth level of transport (creativity) – the student applies, complementing, developing and coordinating the acquired knowledge and methods of activity in non-standard, non-standard conditions. 
This level is called creativity in comparison with others and is the highest level of mastery. 
Let's consider the level of assimilation of knowledge proposed by V. P. Bespalko [4]. 
The first, the level of recognition proficiency is characteristic of the qualification of performing a task according to a given pattern, performing an action in an assisted setting. 
The second level of reproductive mastery is characterized by the ability of students to remember and tell, the ability to perform tasks using given instructions and algorithms, and the ability to perform typical tasks. 
The third level of creative mastery is characterized by the ability to apply already known knowledge in non – standard conditions or find new information in the process of transforming the acquired knowledge. 
The fourth, heuristic level of mastery is characterized by the ability to find ways to solve the problem and find new information, even if the goal is set in a general form. 
At the same time, Bespalko V. P. introduces an additional zero level to the above four levels and presents the level of assimilation of students in the following form. 
Zero level ( understanding) - lack of experience (knowledge) of students in a particular type of activity. 
In addition, understanding determines the student's ability, that is, the ability to perceive new information. 
The first level (knowledge) - the student performs each activity based on a description of the activity, help, hint (reproductive activity). 
The second level (ability to speak) is when the student independently produces and uses information in the typical situations discussed earlier. 
Also, its activity is called Reproductive. 
The third level (application) is the ability of students to apply their knowledge and skills in unusual situations. 
In this case, its action is considered from the point of view of productivity. 
The fourth level (creativity) - the student creates a new rule, an algorithm, that is, new information in the field of activity known to him, in an unexpected situation. 
Such a productive activity is considered a real creative activity. 
V. I. Teslenko emphasizes the following stages of mastering knowledge: 
The first information level requires students to know the information that is known to everyone. 
The second reproductive level is the main operation – the reproduction of information and the transformation of information of an algorithmic nature. 
The third basic level-requires students to understand the most important aspects of educational information, master the general principles of algorithm search. 
The fourth advanced level-requires students to transform the algorithm depending on the non-standard situation, and the qualification of conducting heuristic searches. 
The fifth creative level requires independent critical assessment of educational information, the presence of qualifications for solving non-standard tasks, and mastering elements of research activities. 
The textbook "didactics of secondary schools" presents the following levels of knowledge acquisition by V. V. Kraevsky, I. Ya.Lerner, M. N. Skatkin [5]: 
The first is the consciously accepted and fixed level of knowledge in memory. 
Providing some educational materials to students for perception and absorption. 
The second is the level of readiness to use it according to the sample in similar cases. 
Management of the process of forming methods of applying knowledge to students, i.e. the formation of skills and abilities based on the model. 
The third is the level of readiness for creative application of knowledge in New and sudden situations. 
Ensuring creative application of previously acquired knowledge and qualifications by students. 
The question of levels of mastery was also considered by the famous scientist P. I. Pidkasysty. 
He considered the student's independent activity at the following levels [6]: 
The level of knowledge, recognition of the first concepts and the ability to distinguish and create analogies; 
Level of activity on the analysis and description of the activity with the second object studied, understanding the structure of the material studied; 
The level of action to change (change) the property of the system with the signs of the object being read in the third Modified case; 
The fourth is the relevance of knowledge and the level of activity to translate the acquired knowledge into solving a new group of tasks. 
Different learning theories consider the main and semantic stages of mastering the educational material differently. 
One of the most common approaches was discovered in the work of S. L. Rubinstein [7]: 
The level of perception of educational material based on the direct perception of trends, phenomena, and subjects using the first visual model (models, drawings, etc.). 
The result of this level of assimilation is the formation of students ' opinion about an object, phenomenon, etc. 
The level of reflection of educational material through the disclosure of the subject content of the second education. 
Its multifaceted and deep relationship with other objects and objects from the Inner to the outer. 
The result is the establishment of concepts, causal relationships, laws and patterns, general principles of the tool and the formation of the functioning of identified mechanisms, etc. 
The third is the memorization of educational material as a result of perception or repetition, the ability to pronounce important qualities and relationships. 
The fourth is the use of the studied material to solve practical tasks. 
During this process, skills and abilities are formed, stereotypical and creative methods of activity are mastered. 
It should be noted that these analyses are very similar to each other in the order of the levels of knowledge assimilation of students proposed by the above-mentioned scientists, and there is only a terminological difference between them. 
Psychological and pedagogical research and experience in the preparation and use of pedagogical technologies have shown that students ' knowledge and skills, namely: 
Level I-understanding, remembering, imagining; 
Level II-master the knowledge of the first level and apply them in accordance with the sample and in the case of changes in which the sample can be recognized; 
Level III-mastering the knowledge of the second level and learning how to transfer it to an unknown situation, the method of execution of which is not given; 
Level IV-indicates the correctness of the assessment of creative activity. 
Based on the analysis, it was shown that in order to simulate a real situation for students to control the assimilation of educational materials, it is convenient for them to formulate tasks with increasing difficulty levels and "manage" the actions of their implementation, as well as objectively implement the process of making final assessment decisions on a computer.
PRINCIPLES OF USING VIRTUAL RESOURCES IN THE METHODOLOGICAL SYSTEM OF COMPUTER SIMULATION MODELING
In the education system, computer modeling technology can significantly improve the quality of learning. 
The need for virtual presentation of information on the relevant subjects by the teacher in software systems is obvious. 
In addition, it is necessary to identify methods and approaches that will allow us to solve this problem. 
To improve the effectiveness of continuous multi-level education, we offer a methodological system of computer simulation modeling. 
It is aimed at creating a common information fund of virtual resources for all sectors, from preschool to higher education. 
The methodological system provides for conducting lectures, practical and laboratory classes. 
The development of such a methodological system requires conducting research at all levels of Education. 
The object of the study is the educational process in the pre-school group. 
Keywords: education, information technology, computer modeling, video method, simulation, virtual resource, virtual practical work
In everyday life, people often encounter the process of modeling in the process of solving various problems. 
Modeling a subject area helps a person predict various events, trends, and phenomena. 
The modeling tool is a biological neural network that is completely different from the computer architecture. 
It significantly contributes to the types of functions that are responsible for the effective implementation of each model. 
These systems have different structures designed to solve different types of problems. 
Modern computer modeling technology is one of the main methods for recognizing the environment in scientific and practical research [1, 2, 8]. 
The use of such technologies for educational purposes contributes to the development of general education schools, the development of personality-oriented and research forms of learning. Computer modeling technology contributes to improving the quality of Education. 
In accordance with this, there is a need to use video methods, to present information in the form of a teaching software system, that is, a virtual presentation. 
At the same time, it is necessary to develop and define methods-approaches used in this direction [3, 4, 5]. 
Research methods. 
To improve the quality of continuous multi-level education, we were guided by the methodological system of computer simulation modeling. 
The task of the methodological modeling system is to prepare virtual resources for all levels of the education system. 
It makes it possible to use a single Information System of virtual resources for all sectors, from preschool education to higher education. 
The methodological system of computer simulation modeling covers all levels of education and their study is a modern requirement [6,7,8]. 
Virtual resources for preschool educational organizations should be created for each subject and taking into account the physiological characteristics of children. 
The methodological system of virtual resources based on simulation modeling is classified as follows. 
Experimental and research work in this direction was carried out at the secondary school No. 2 in Atyrau, where the branch of the Department of Informatics of Atyrau State University named after H. Dosmukhamedov is located. 
The study involved students of pre-school groups. 
In the course of the work, a comparative analysis of the level of children's assimilation of the subject in the use of computer simulation modeling methods was carried out [8]. 
The main results. 
There are many software tools designed to improve the effectiveness of the educational process: 
PowerPoint, Adobe Photoshop, CorelDraw, DreamWeaver, Microsoft FrontPage, Macromedia/Adobe Flash, HTML, PHP, Java, 3DS Max, etc. [9, 10]. 
Again, special virtual resources for teaching a particular subject are prepared with the participation of subject teachers. 
The article presents the results of the application of virtual practical work "formation of elementary mathematical concepts", which was prepared for the pre-school group on the subject "Mathematics" and included in the educational process. 
The purpose of the virtual series of practical works" formation of elementary mathematical concepts " is to prepare children for teaching mathematics at school. 
Virtual practical work develops children's knowledge and skills, teaches them to compare, analyze, classify, and perform other logical operations [11, 12]. 
Discussion. 
24 virtual practical works on mathematics were prepared in Kazakh and Russian languages. 
Children of the pre-school group (Kazakh, Russian groups) of Secondary School No. 2 of Atyrau, who took part in the experiment, were divided into 2 subgroups aged 5-6 years. 
A total of 4 experimental and, accordingly, 4 control groups were taken for the study. 
On average, there were 12 students in each subgroup. 
Students ' assimilation of the topic was divided into high, medium, and low levels. 
The qualitative result was calculated based on the number of children who mastered the topics at a high and average level. 
Table 1. results of virtual practical work used in addition to traditional lessons
Conclusion
In conclusion, a series of virtual practical works" formation of simple mathematical concepts", which were used as an application on the subject" Mathematics", showed a positive effect in the course of teaching the subject. 
Thanks to this, students ' cognitive activity increased, they learned to perform comparison, analysis, classification, and other logical operations. 
The use of virtual practical works in the educational process resulted in the following results::
1.programs related to the creation of computer simulation models were studied. 
2.the algorithm and structure of virtual experimental works have been developed. 
3.24 virtual practical works in Kazakh and Russian languages have been prepared. 
4.received an author's certificate for a series of virtual experimental works" formation of simple mathematical concepts". 
5. these virtual practical works are included in the educational process. 
6.analysis of the results of the educational process was carried out. 
7. virtual practical work helped to save time on explaining topics and completing tasks. 
8.the use of virtual practical work in the educational process has increased the level of students ' assimilation of the topic by 17%.
ON THE NEED TO INTRODUCE THE BASICS OF ROBOTICS INTO THE PROCESS OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING OF FUTURE COMPUTER SCIENCE SPECIALISTS
The article discusses the issues of introducing robotics in education into the process of professional training of future computer science specialists. 
The relevance of this issue in the regulatory documents adopted in the Republic of Kazakhstan is analyzed. 
The need to introduce the basics of robotics in education in the implementation of training of specialists in higher educational institutions is shown. 
The terms robotics and robotics in education have been clarified. 
In addition, the current state of implementation of the basics of robotics in education abroad and in the Republic of Kazakhstan is analyzed. 
The conclusions of foreign researchers about which pedagogical theory is the basis for teaching the basics of robotics in education are presented. 
One of the main problems in the field of robotics in education is the lack of educational and methodological support and the preparation of future computer science teachers for conducting this discipline. 
In this regard, this issue requires the introduction of robotics in education in the process of professional training of specialists.
Key words: robotics in education, the educational process, personality, training of future computer science teachers, the use of ICT.
The current stage of society's development is characterized by the introduction of information technologies in all spheres of human activity, which radically changes the education system, preaching a new understanding of the value of Education. 
At the same time, the use of new learning technologies is characterized by the need to create an educational process that provides for guaranteed achievement of a didactic goal. 
At the same time, robotics in education at all levels of general and vocational education is being actively developed and implemented. 
The introduction of robotics technologies in education into the educational process ensures the formation of personal, research, and communication professional competencies that are an important component of the state standard in general education. 
The teacher plays a key role in solving this problem, and therefore it is necessary to improve the professional training of future computer science teachers in this direction. 
Currently, the fourth technological revolution is taking place in the world: 
the growing flow of information, innovations based on high technology and the work done, change all spheres of life. 
In addition, the demands of society and the interests of the individual are also changing. 
If earlier in labor lessons girls were engaged in sewing a lawn mower, and boys-in wood or metal, now only this is not enough. 
Currently, all over the world, students are interested in robotics, assembly, programming, modeling, three-dimensional design, etc. 
To realize such an interest, you need quite complex skills and competencies. 
It is not enough just to know and perform, but it is also very important to conduct research and come up with something. 
In addition, it is necessary to develop the main academic branches of science, such as science, mathematics, technology, and engineering, which can be combined in one word into a single name STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics). 
On the basis of STEM, new versions of this concept are also emerging, among which the most common ones are: 
STEAM (science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics), STREM (science, technology, robotics, engineering and mathematics), radical changes taking place in society also increase the requirements for a modern specialist. 
They must have universal and special competencies and be professionally flexible and competitive. 
The education system plays a key role in the effective development of Kazakhstan's economy. 
This is noted by the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev in his annual address to the people of Kazakhstan. 
In his address" Kazakhstan's way – 2050: common goal, common interest, Common Future " (2014), President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev emphasized the role of the education system: 
"First of all, the role of the education system should change. 
Our task is to turn the education system into the middle link of a new model of economic development. 
Training programs should be aimed at developing the ability to think constructively and develop the skills of independent search for information" [1]. 
To implement this task, a number of measures have been carried out on a national scale. 
In the above-mentioned address to the people of Kazakhstan: "...in the second and next five years, it is necessary to start laying the foundations of mobile and Multimedia, Nano-and space technologies, robotics, genetic engineering and search for the energy of the future" [1]. 
The president of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev pointed out robotics as one of the main industries that require urgent justification. 
Robotics is one of the most promising areas in the field of Information Technology. 
Currently, it is impossible to imagine such industries as car building, Microelectronics, machine building without the use of robotic systems. 
The development of production based on the use of robotics requires the training of significant specialists in this field. 
This, in turn, sets new tasks for the modern education system. 
Robotics at school is a technology of the XXI century, which ensures the development of students ' communication skills, develops the skills of interaction, independent decision-making, and reveals their creative potential. 
Training of specialists in the field of robotics should begin with a general secondary school. 
What is robotics? 
Robotics is one of the most advanced areas of Science and technology, and robotics in education is a new interdisciplinary direction for teaching students, which integrates knowledge in the fields of physics, mechatronics, technology, mathematics, cybernetics and ICT and involves students of different ages in innovative, scientific, technical and creative processes. 
It is aimed at popularizing scientific and technical creativity and increasing the prestige of the engineer profession among young people, developing young people's skills in practical engineering problems and working with technology. 
The word robot was first mentioned in the play by the Czech writer Karel Chapek, written in 1920.U.R. (Rossum's Universal robots) was used, that is, in translation from Czech, the word robot means a machine of anthropomorphic action (similar to a human) [2].
Now a robot is called an automatic device or program that performs actions independently, following a pre-entered instruction and receiving information about the surrounding world or commands from operators. 
Currently, the introduction of robotics in the educational process is carried out without a plan. 
The analysis of the field of robotics in education showed that these days the study of robotics is carried out as follows: 
- Robotics as a lesson (within the framework of the subjects" Technology"," Computer Science and ICT " – in Russian schools); 
- Robotics as a type of extracurricular activity; 
- Robotics in the system of additional education ("robotics Circle", Center for technical creativity, Technopark, etc.) [3]. Researchers D. V. Andreev and others distinguish three groups based on the existing training programs and teaching aids in the field of robotics in education: 
- programming course 
- learning the basics of programming using robots; 
- Courses based on the methodology of project activity using Lego constructors; 
- courses aimed at performing Olympiad tasks in robotics [4]. 
In the research of H. H. Abushkin, A.V. Dadonova, interdisciplinary connections in robotics are considered. 
Authors:"...robotics, being an interdisciplinary course, allows us to increase the level of formation of students 'basic competencies" [5].
Omar Mubin et al.foreign researchers considered what pedagogical theories can serve as the basis for teaching robotics in education. 
The authors agree that" robotics in education, based on the theory of Constructivism originally proposed by Jean Piaget, gradually moves to the modern teaching methodology of S. S. Peipert " [6]. 
According to the theory of Constructivism, the acquired knowledge is determined by what students learn by conducting experiments and experiments. 
Constructivism theory is based on the principle of active learning. 
In addition, the authors recall the social constructivism proposed by L. S. Vygodsky, which is often used in the methodology of robotics in education. 
This methodology is known as "decomposing" problems, that is, dividing a complex problem into small parts. 
The authors argue that the theory of Constructivism is the basis for teaching robotics in education [7]. 
Many foreign researchers consider mastering programming at an early age with the help of robotics. 
The authors believe that they will master the basic concept of robotic programming in preschool institutions. 
The works of S. Peipert served as the basis for the creation of many educational programs from the point of view of the modern approach to the acquisition of knowledge and experience. 
As S. Peipert's research shows, in the process of programming using robots, students acquire many basic skills, especially in the field of creative and constructive thinking, "learning to read", which is called "metacognitive skills" [4]. 
The results of research by foreign and Kazakh scientists emphasize that one of the main problems in the field of robotics in education is the lack of educational and methodological support for both students and teachers. 
Currently, robotics is widely used as additional training in the field of additional education. 
From the point of view of the new paradigm of education, we cannot say that classical training programs using robots in the context of additional training are relevant, since the role of the modern teacher is changing. 
This indicates the need to introduce the basics of robotics in education into the process of professional training of future computer science teachers. 
The process of preparing teachers for the use of innovative technologies in teaching is actively implemented on a global scale, including in Kazakhstan [8]. 
Minister of education and science Yerlan Sagadiyev visited the International Robotics Festival in Karaganda and named robotics as one of the most important areas of education, citing the example of Asian countries, where five million children learn robotics every day. 
Minister Yerlan Sagadiyev noted that the introduction of robotics in schools is one of the fundamental tasks, and in 2016, 20 thousand children began to study additional robotics within the school walls. 
It was also noted that the issue of studying robotics as a compulsory subject is being considered in schools of the Republic of Kazakhstan [9]. 
In a number of schools of the Republic of Kazakhstan (including Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools), more than 1000 educational collections of LEGO Education are already in use. 
Currently, robotics in education has become a new direction in the world STEM system, which combines all the components of this system, teaches programming and assembly skills. 
In 2015, a three-year project called "ER4STEM" was launched (Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, Malta and the United Kingdom), aimed at creative and critical use of robotics in education, which accompanied the interest of students in the scientific and technical sphere. 
The aim of the project" ER4STEM " is to create an open and concise system that will allow teaching children various areas of robotics in education and the STEAM system, as well as solving practical problems of high complexity. 
Within the framework of the project, it is planned to hold seminars on robotics in education for 4,000 children in five countries.
Once a year, the European conference on robotics in education is held (2016 – Austria, 2017 – Bulgaria, 2018 – Malta). 
The result of the project is the development of a large-scale repository for teachers "ER4STEM". 
At the same time, the Republic of Kazakhstan has started a rapid development of STEM education. 
Evidence of this is the fact that within the framework of the state program for the development of education and Science for years, it is planned to transfer the content of school education to STEM content [10]. 
To implement the new educational policy, it is planned to include STEM elements in the curriculum aimed at developing new technologies, scientific innovations, and mathematical modeling. 
Analysis of the introduction of the basics of robotics in education into the educational process large-scale didactic potential of robotics, which includes many educational programs "what to read?"how do I teach?""the question remains open. 
The analysis of curricula and programs in higher education institutions, our research conducted in connection with a detailed acquaintance with the research problem, showed that there is no work on introducing the basics of robotics in education into the process of professional training of future computer science teachers. 
The reason for this is that the elements of robotics were not previously included in the content of professional training of teachers in pedagogical universities, and its introduction is one of the most important urgent tasks at the current stage of Education Development.
FEATURES AND USES OF THE PYTHON PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
Python programming language belongs to the modern interpreted language and recently the number of users is increasing.
Python is a high-level, OB, and functional programming language.
A feature of the language structure is the small number of auxiliary words, variable descriptions are not required, and the program text is immediately formatted and written.
Features of the programming language compared to Pascal, C, C++ languages, differences in structure, tuple, list, dictionary structures are used.
These structures are easy to use and can be modified.
Another feature of the language structure is the dynamic structure of data, pointers, dynamic memory, memory addresses are not used.
You can add other modules to the program. The main features and features of the language are shown in the article with examples.
The use of the list structure in mathematical calculations, performing operations on vectors and matrices is described.
Keywords: Python, interpreter, speed, low-level, structure, operating system, operators, operator, tuple, list, dictionary, set, memory address, dynamic memory, pointers, operator bracket, element, index, keyword, list generator.
In accordance with the rapid development of computer technology, the requirements for programming languages are also changing.
Recent computers have started to pay attention to interpreted languages in accordance with the speed of execution of interpreted programs.
Because of this, programmers began to pay attention to the Python programming language.
The Python programming language was created in 1991 by the Dutch programmer Guido van Rossum.
The name Python or Python comes from the TV series (Monty Python's Flying Circus).
After creating a programming language, Rossum created his own community on the Internet.
The official site is http://python.org.
Python programming language is an interpreted language.
The Python programming language is a high-level programming language and a functional programming language.
Python is very easy to use because it is simple and doesn't have a lot of verbs.
Let's take a look at the benefits of the language's capabilities. The Python interpreter can be executed on all platforms and operating systems.
The programming language is extensible, the interpreter is written in C, and the source code can be controlled.
Another advantage is that you can add modules that provide various additional features to the program.
These modules are written by skilled programmers in C and Python.
Let's look at the main features of the Python language.
1. Variables are not required to be defined in Python as in other programming languages.
A variable's type is determined when the value is first assigned. The type of the variable changes and is defined by the last assigned value.
2. Organization of lists in Pascal, C, C++ languages causes problems.
To use a list, you need to learn about dynamic memory and the operation of pointers.
Users make mistakes when creating, applying, and deleting lists.
In order to facilitate work with lists, Delphi Pascal has created the TList class, the STL (Standard Template Library) library with vectors, lists, sets, and stack structures in C++.
The peculiarity of the Python language is that the language itself has tuple, list and dictionary structures.
Let's consider these structures.
A procession.
A tuple is an ordered set of elements.
A tuple structure, unlike a list, cannot be modified, that is, you cannot assign a new value to the i-th element, or add a new element. A tuple is of type tuple.
The tuple function is used to create a tuple. A tuple can be thought of as a fixed list.
There are two tuple methods: index () method determines element index by value, for example k=c.index(30) print(k) second count() method determines the number of elements with known value: tuple elements can be cut like in list .
Lists. A list is an ordered set of elements.
List elements can be numbers, sublists, data of various types.
You can use the list() function to create a list.
For example, the command Simb = list("Informatika") returns a list of letters I,n,f,o,r,m,a,t,i,k,a.
The list can be obtained using special list generators.
An index is used to get a list element. Add a new element to the list, delete an element, cut by its index and expand the list.
Dictionary.
The dictionary structure is similar to the record structure in Pascal or the structure structure in C.
A dictionary is an unordered collection of elements.
A dictionary is defined between a list and an array, and the dict() function is used to create it.
Like a list, it is defined by an index, but it is called a key, and can be a list or a tuple other than a number.
The function argument is Key=value and can also be constructed as (key:value, key:value).
A dictionary element is retrieved by its key, for example dictionary[key]:
You can change a dictionary item, add a new item, delete an item.
The dictionary can be created using the generator:
3. Pointers, dynamic memory, memory addresses in Pascal, C, C++ languages are not used in Python.
It is similar to Java in this respect. Pointers are mainly used in low-level programming languages.
Python does not include these constructs to ensure simplicity and high reliability.
4. In Python, statements are grouped by subscribing to a single block.
In Pascal language, begin-end operator words are used to group operators, and in C, C++, Java languages - curly braces {}.
In Python, a block of statements is executed by moving one or more positions from left to right from the header of a known construct.
For example: Here, while s<a: the two statements executed after the loop condition are placed in one block.
Let's consider the use of the Python programming language in mathematical calculations.
We will create a program that calculates the scalar product of two vectors a and b using function, list structures.
We use a list to define a vector, and a random number generator to define its elements.
The function def vect_an(n) defines the elements of a vector, the function def pub(a) prints the elements of a vector, the function def scal_kob(a,b) defines the scalar product of two vectors.
You can create and use a matrix structure using a complex list structure.
We consider the product of matrix A and B.
We define the corresponding matrix in the form of a complex list, and we use a random number generator to determine its elements, and we use the function def matr_an(n,m) to determine the matrix.
A built-in loop operator is used to create a matrix and perform operations, the def pub(A) function prints the matrix elements, and the def kob(A,B) function multiplies two matrix elements.
So, in the main program, the elements of each matrix are determined and displayed on the screen, and the result of multiplying two matrices is displayed.
In conclusion, the following features of the Python programming language can be noted from the above examples:
1. A small number of auxiliary words in the language structure and the formatting of the program text immediately;
2. Convenience and ability to change structures used in the language;
3. The program text written according to the algorithm should be shorter than real and other programming languages.
DIFFERENTIATION OF CALCULATIONS IN TEACHING PROGRAMMING COURSE - A GUARANTEE OF CREATIVITY DEVELOPMENT
In this work, the problems of teaching the programming course are considered.
It is known that teaching is a pedagogical process of organizing and stimulating the active cognitive activity of students in terms of acquiring scientific knowledge, skills and abilities, developing creative abilities.
Teaching methods are a complex, multifaceted, multi-quality phenomenon.
Objective laws, goals, content, principles, and forms of education are reflected through teaching methods.
Teaching methods perform teaching, developing, educative, stimulating (motivational) and control-corrective functions in the educational process.
With the help of methods, the goal of teaching is realized, that is, it is the observation of the teaching function, the level and pace of development of students is ensured - the development function, as well as the determination of educational results - the implementation of the educational function.
The opinion raised in the article is that the methodology of teaching programming languages remains one of the issues that do not lose relevance during the time of rapid development of information technologies.
When teaching a programming course, it is recommended to teach problems by leveling and differentiating them.
Keywords: teaching, methodology, programming, differentiation, division into levels.
In the present period, innovative technologies are widely used in order to form a competitive individual, humanize the training process, and increase the developmental function. The purpose of all new technologies is to take into account the unique and independent features of the student's personality, to increase their independent research and to form their creativity.
The skill of the teacher in this regard is reflected in the rational use of new methods and creative works in the science of pedagogy, in addition to mastering the teaching methodology.
In this regard, the teachers of the subject of teaching programming have the task of training a person who understands the meaning of programming semantics, has a good command of the programming language, works well with creativity, and has developed skills for today's requirements.
There is no tutorial that will instantly make you a programmer.
The training of a programmer begins with learning the basic concepts and mastering simple programming techniques.
The computer works according to commands.
We enter these commands using the keyboard as if we were typing on a typewriter.
And what would happen if we could save the sequence of frequently repeated commands in the form of a file on a hard or flexible magnetic disk in the computer and load the input from the file on that disk into the computer itself without waiting for us to enter the commands from the keyboard?
Of course, it would be more convenient than typing by hand over and over again.
This is how creating programs begins, as mentioned above, a file consisting of commands written to disk is the actual program itself.
So, a program is an ordered list of commands.
It is important for the program not only what commands are included in it, but also in what order they are given.
Programmers also write programs using special languages, which are also called programming languages.
It is natural that the same programs written in different languages will look different. There are hundreds of programming languages and several versions of each of them.
A programmer writes a program in a language that is convenient for him.
There is no universal programming language that is suitable for all situations.
But all programming languages have one thing in common.
They are understandable to programmers but not understandable to the processor.
The processor can work only with numbers, so it understands only programs written in machine code, so a program written in any language is first translated into the language of the processor, that is, it becomes machine code.
This translation work is done by translators.
Taking into account these conditions, if after completing the programming course we train a specialist who can write at least simple programs, then the teacher can be considered to have achieved his goal.
Teaching a programming language begins with learning the alphabet of a programming language and often ends with a report.
Problems have a special place in the teaching of the programming course.
In general, in the theory of learning, calculation is used in a broad sense.
Any task that requires the implementation of some cognitive act, any educational text that must be mastered can be added to this concept.
Accordingly, A. N. Leontiev, the report is a kind of goal, and in certain cases.
K. I. Neshkov and A. D. Semushin says that the following types of problems are divided according to their functions: problems of didactic functions, problems of cognitive functions, problems of developmental functions.
Yu. M. According to Kolyagina, the tasks of reports should correspond to the main components of education: teaching, education and development.
E. I. Lyashchenko, analyzing the reports, divides them into didactic, cognitive, developmental according to the requirements [1].
Differentiated reports according to level learning goals or objectives include:
 problems, solving them does not require new knowledge of the subject, existing knowledge should be used in other combinations;
 learns about problems, subjects with their help and based on them.
If we say that calculation develops the student's thinking, P. M. It is impossible not to mention Erdniev.
The main idea of Erdniev's developmental problems: solving simple problems, creating problems with similar and opposite goals, tasks with a common initial goal, summarizing the initial problem with the same or different parameters.
E. V. According to Smykalova, the content of reports may deviate from the main course;
it is not necessary for all students to remember and master this material.
In solving these tasks, the student should show sufficient knowledge and ingenuity to apply theoretical information or methods of solving known problems.
I believe that level reports should be a form of education.
This does not mean that they must be removed.
However, students have different abilities, so solving such problems will lead to success.
problems with developmental functions should not be randomly selected.
They should be connected with the reading material and cause little difficulties during solving.
The greatest advantage of graded problems is that they are solved without prior preparation and are sufficiently varied in content and approach.
When students solve such tasks, it is not only knowledge of the subject but also the mastery of the subject.
Development in teaching (didactic) problems, as well as answers.
(cycle) when creating such a system of reports, the following rules should be taken into account:
1) mandatory alternating exercises,
2) there should not be more than three tasks of the same type,
3) formation of ability by any action in all possible cases,
4) joint exercises that use reverse actions to exercises for performing direct actions,
5) activities in the material stage (models of action) mental stage (visual model, mind) street performance.
Taking these considerations into account, let's take into account that the report is generated on a computer, so:
The main stages of making a report on a computer. Making a report on a computer consists of the following main stages, some of which are carried out without a computer:
1. Reporting:
• collecting information about the report;
• formulation of the terms of the report;
• determining the purpose of issuing the report;
 data description.
2. Analysis and study of reports, models:
 analysis of existing analogues of the report;
 analysis of technical and software tools;
 creating a mathematical model;
 creating a database.
3. Creating the algorithm:
 selection of algorithm design methods;
 write the algorithm (block diagram);
 selection of tests and testing methods;
 algorithm design.
4. Programming:
 choice of programming language;
 determination of data organization methods;
 write the algorithm in the chosen programming language.
5. Testing and Repair:
 syntax correction;
 repairing the semantic and logical structure;
 test calculations and analysis of test results;
 improvement of the program.
6. Analysis of the result of solving the problem:
If necessary, clarify the mathematical model by repeating steps 2-5.
7. Preparation of the program:
 improvement of the program to issue a specific report;
 creating documents for problem solving, mathematical model, algorithm, program, set of testers, program use.
Differentiated learning is one of the effective technologies for teaching programming courses.
Differentiated education students, while studying in the same program, perform tasks at different levels depending on their ability and level of understanding of the given material.
Differentiated education is divided into level and orientation[2].[3].
 Differentiation by level - learning of learning materials at different levels in one group, in one program and with one textbook.
 Orientational differentiation - the study and learning of educational materials of different groups of students in a program with a high level of presentation, extensive content, and a lot of information.
The advantages of level tasks are as follows:
In conclusion, the programming course is taught in a differentiated way - the student is taught to create his own activities, to develop himself, to acquire knowledge independently, to speak his mind freely, to prove, to accept the rightness and wrongness of the decision, to conduct research on his own, and to self-evaluate.
DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNICATIVE COMPETENCE ON THE BASE OF EDUCATION OF STUDENTS
In the article, communicative competence is implemented in connection with the change of the educational paradigm within the framework of personality-oriented pedagogical technology, which forms the basis of the transition from student control to self-control, from social development to self-development, from monologue to dialogue, from explanation to understanding.
Competence is the ability to perform practical actions that require a certain conceptual system, the type of thinking, the ability to quickly solve the problems and tasks that have arisen.
Keywords: description of students' communicative competence, concepts of competence, description of the main units in updating educational content.
Creation of any technology, including educational technologies, requires selection and justification of its methodology.
Student-oriented education is approved as a methodological principle of formation of core competences in the new standard introduced in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is clear that the implementation of this duty is carried out within the framework of this resident.
Personality-oriented education as an educational methodology that matches the tasks of the theory of formation of core competences as much as possible allows to create a personal development trajectory of the student, focusing on the individuality and personal characteristics of each student.
Putting student-oriented education into practice and creating the theory of formation of core competences is becoming the most important issue for world pedagogic science and practice today.
Today's distinctive changes in the character of Kazakhstani education direct it to the free development of a person, to the development of his high culture, creative activity, independence, competitiveness, and adaptability.
This direction in itself requires a new perspective in the formation of the student's personality.
The change of pedagogical goals arising as a result of mastering student-oriented education by the pedagogic community put forward the problem of determining a complete, personal and socially integrated result.
The general definition of such an integrated social-personal activity concept as a result of education is the concept of competence/competency, which provides a set of motivational-value, cognitive, worldview, and communicative components.
Here, the first definition is usually associated with the qualities of a person, where processes, normative duties and rights are established in a certain area, and the second is the practical implementation of competences, its manifestation in real actions, and what arises from the attitude of a person to that action.
The concepts of "competence" and "competence" are known only at the research level in today's pedagogic science.
Therefore, until today, a clear, final definition of these concepts has not been formed.
This is recognized as the main proof of the relevance of our research work.
In the dictionary of foreign words, the concept of "competent" is interpreted as the sphere of authority of a certain person with competences, or the sphere of questions and affairs to be conducted by one person. Competent (French) - competent, competent, competents (Lat.) - suitable, capable, competence (English) - ability (competence) [1].
The concept of "competence" appeared in the world of work and in industrial institutions.
The term "core competence" appeared for the first time in 1992 in the project "Secondary education in Europe" of the Council of Europe.
The task of this project was to analyze the purpose and content of education in the countries of the European Union, and the mechanisms for assessing the level of academic achievement of students.
The International Labor Organization has included the concept of "core competencies" among the qualification requirements of specialists undergoing post-secondary education and the system of improving the qualifications of management personnel.
Key competences in the training of specialists in the vocational school have been mentioned since the 1990s.
Philosophical, pedagogical, psychological literature was analyzed to reveal the meaning of the concept of "competence".
Competent philosophical interpretation opens the way to innovations and new introductions related to human knowledge and practice, and also allows to determine the educational requirements for the pedagogical situation in each class [2].
Competence (from the Latin word "competens" is the meaning of the work to be performed, to know the methods and means of achieving the set goal in depth and to the bottom, as well as to have business skills and abilities corresponding to that work.
General cultural competence is the level of knowledge sufficient to independently acquire knowledge, to independently solve cognitive problems arising during it, to establish one's own position [3].
Competence is a specific ability necessary for effective performance of a specific activity in a specific subject area, and it also includes special knowledge, ways of thinking, and understanding of responsibility for one's actions.
Competence is the personal capabilities of the position holder, his qualifications (knowledge and experience) that allow him to participate in decision-making or solve problems on his own through certain knowledge and skills.
The author associates the concept of "competence" with the maturity of a person and his reaching a state that allows him to perform productive actions and achieve good results in the performance of his work duties [4].
Thus, competence is a general ability based on knowledge, experience, values, and aptitudes accumulated during training.
Competence is neither knowledge nor skill.
Competence is something that creates action, entrepreneurship.
Competence is formed in the course of conscious activity.
Competent learning depends on the student's activity.
To learn how to work, you have to work, to learn how to communicate, it is useless to listen to scientific lectures on communication.
It is impossible to master them without speaking English or Russian.
You can learn how to work on a computer only through practice.
Certain conditions have a great influence on the manifestation of competence.
Competence means adapting one's existing knowledge and experience to that situation.
It can be seen in everyday life that educated people are not able to use their knowledge in real situations.
Thus, for the formation of competence, it is necessary to create concrete conditions so that they can be seen.
Competencies are the framework of questions and phenomena that a person has authority, knowledge, and experience in a certain field.
Social competence - social skills that allow to correctly follow the norms and rules of life in society.
The term of social pedagogy.
A personal description of the degree that meets the competency-specialty requirements.
Competence is a type of thinking, the ability to understand that is capable of carrying out practical activities that require the existence of a certain conceptual system, to quickly solve emerging problems and tasks [5].
Competence is the ability and readiness of a person to act based on the knowledge and experience acquired in the course of training aimed at preparing a person for independent participation in the learning process and its correct integration into work.
Competence is a set of interrelated qualities of a person, determined in relation to certain things and processes, which are necessary for the qualitative and productive performance of a certain activity.
Thus, summarizing the given definitions, the concept of competence is associated with the subject's conscious understanding of the purpose of the activity and the means of its implementation.
Competence is the choice to use competencies appropriate to the situation.
It can be interpreted as tools and keys that open the door to learning new situations.
Core competence is a defining competence, because it corresponds to the conditions of implementation, they are not limited, not specific, but universal to a certain extent.
Competencies are shown as subject and key.
The Council of Europe has defined five groups of key competences, which are given special importance.
 Political and social competences:
the ability to take responsibility for oneself, participate in joint decision-making, dispute-conflict, participate in the functioning of democratic institutions and improve it.
 Competencies related to the ability to live in a multicultural society:
To prevent the birth and spread of racism and xenophobia, education should equip young people with intercultural competences such as understanding differences, mutual respect, languages of other cultures and the ability to live together with people of different religions.
 Competences related to mastering oral and written forms of communication, the importance of the latter in work and social life is so great that a person who does not master it is at risk of being ostracized from society.
This group also includes knowledge of several languages, which are gaining importance today.
 Competencies related to the use and recognition of public information are mastery of new technology, understanding of its use, identification of its strengths and weaknesses, critical approach to information and advertisements disseminated by the media.
 Lifelong learning capacity as the basis of continuous training and professional training, as well as personal and social life.
Within the framework of the "Secondary Education in Europe" project, the following list was created for the problem of key competencies:
Research: the business of getting the most out of experience;
linking and regulating their knowledge; ability to organize own learning methods; ability to solve problems;
ability to study independently. Search: searching for various information;
asking around; getting advice from an expert; get information; working with documents and classifying them.
Thinking: organization of interrelation of past and present events;
a critical approach to the development of society from a certain point of view;
coping with uncertainty and adversity; assessing social habits related to health, needs, and the environment;
ability to appreciate works of art and literature.
Collaborative action:
the ability to work cooperatively in a group;
decision making;
ability to resolve conflicts;
agreement business, contract preparation and conclusion.
Getting Started:
entering the project;
responsibility;
joining and contributing to a group or team;
the ability to organize one's own work;
working with computing and model devices.
Adaptability: ability to use new information and communication technologies;
coping with difficulties; ability to make new decisions.
This list is approved as a working document in defining core competencies.
Therefore, we do not consider the above list as the final result of key competencies.
The description of the system of core competences developed by the University of Cambridge and Oxford states that competences are developed in the implementation of various activities, for example, in the course of learning and professional activities.
UNESCO documents define the fundamental goals and objectives of education in the 21st century, which are:
teaching to learn;
teaching to work and earn money;
ability to act;
teaching to live;
learn to live together.
In general secondary education in the Republic of Lithuania, taking into account the main types of activities that allow students to learn social experience in society, life skills and practical experience, the following key competencies have been determined:
social competence;
cognitive competence;
communicative;
creativity;
critical thinking and problem solving;
educational qualification;
healthy lifestyle competence.
Communicative competence of students consists of linguistic, language, discursive, pragmatic, cultural components.
The linguistic component consists of basic language knowledge, the linguistic component consists of the knowledge of the norms of the spoken and written word in the Russian language, and the discursive component includes knowledge of the types of discourse, the ability to create, create and understand them.
Pragmatic component indicates readiness to deliver communicative content in a certain situation of communication, and cultural component provides mastery of speech culture at the level of speech, word choice, grammar. These components correspond to the results of education specified in the state compulsory secondary education standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan. It is based on the gradual development of students' communicative skills.
It requires introducing the concept of "small group", analysis, analysis-combination, and creative exercises into the learning process.
Texts of various genres are didactic units in the process of forming students' communicative competence on the basis of personality-oriented education.
This allows the student to develop adaptability. In order to conclude this section, let's focus on the concepts of "competence", "competence".
1. The concept of "competence" does not belong to the field of education, but to the field of business.
Competence is a general quality based on knowledge, experience, values, and inclinations accumulated in the course of study.
Competence is neither knowledge nor skill.
Here it is necessary to distinguish the concepts of competence and business.
Business is a specific activity, and competence is a description obtained from control of business, activity. Thus, entrepreneurship is competence in action.
Competence is something that creates action, business.
2. Competence is formed in the course of conscious activity.
3. Competency acquisition depends on student's activity. To learn how to work, you need to work, to learn how to communicate, it is useless to listen to scientific reports on communication. It is impossible to master them unless you speak English or Russian.
You can learn how to work on a computer only through practice.
Thus, in order to master the competence, the student must become the subject of his conscious action.
4. Competence is contextual.
Certain conditions have a great influence on the manifestation of competence.
Competence means adapting one's existing knowledge and experience to that situation.
It is possible to meet in everyday life that educated people are not able to apply their knowledge as needed in real situations.
Thus, for the formation and formation of competence, it is necessary to create concrete aspects that are visible.
5. Based on the initial level of competence, it is developed, enriched, expanded and confirmed.
6. The concept of "competence" is associated with the subject's conscious understanding of the purpose of the action and the means of its implementation.
Competence is the choice to use the competencies (business and skills) appropriate to the situation.
When talking about core competences, they can be interpreted as tools, "keys" that open the "door" to learning new situations. Core competence is a defining competence, because it corresponds to the conditions of implementation, which are not limited, not specific, but universal to a certain extent.
DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION COMPETENCE OF TEACHERS IN EDUCATIONAL CONTENT
Information competence of a teacher begins with his self-confidence, self-expression in professional activities.
Hence, perfection is reflected as a form and model of action. "Achievement" defines the sphere of application of the teacher's knowledge, knowledge and skills.
A competently formed teacher is a teacher who, in the process of formation, has a certain set of tasks in pursuit of the goal of success.
In order to develop the information culture of teachers, it is necessary to teach them how to use ICT in the educational process.
In addition, it is enough to organize training courses for teachers in the technology of working with service software tools.
Keywords:
The main means of organizing the educational process in the information world, new methods, teaching the use of ICT, increasing information culture and competence in improving the educational qualification of teachers.
Educational content is one of the main tools for the development of individual skills.
The concept of educational content is considered differently.
For example, Y. K. Babansky explains it as follows:
"The content of education is a system of scientific knowledge, skills and abilities, their mastery ensures the comprehensive development of a person's mind and physical abilities, development of their worldview, morals and behavior, preparation for social life and work."
Educational content includes all elements of social experience accumulated by mankind.
At the same time, educational content is considered as one of the components of the teaching process.
In the age of information science, international relations of our country are expanding more and more and the quality has risen to a new level.
The changes and difficulties of social and economic trends require raising the quality of education.
Lack of necessary information and necessary knowledge in the current situation hinders social and scientific development.
Carrying out this through traditional educational activities does not give results, therefore, there is a need to use ICT in the educational process in accordance with modern requirements.
Today, the set of goals of education includes the development of information competence, the basis of which is the ability to live in a multicultural society, the flexibility to connect knowledge with the needs of practice, the ability to gradually assess the life situation and find ways to solve problems, etc.
This goal can be realized by approaching the organization of education from the perspective of competence.
In order to develop the information competence of teachers, the development of their ability to integrate their knowledge with the help of ICT is an important issue today.
In the process of implementation of works in this direction, the system of improving the qualifications of teachers is one of the main tasks and most urgent problems of modern times in the context of education information.
In order to improve the qualifications of teachers, it is possible to find the main tools, methods and forms of organizing the educational process in the information world at any time.
In this case, the development relevance is determined by the quality of teaching and training to be able to use ICT in a comprehensive and free way.
In the context of the transition to a 12-year general secondary school, there is a need to develop the need to develop the teacher's information competence in connection with the organization of education for an individual who is focused on results.
Information competence of a teacher begins with his self-confidence, self-expression in professional activities.
A competently formed teacher is a teacher who has a certain set of tasks in pursuit of the goal of success in the process of formation.
Those tasks are:
I. General cultural block.
A competent teacher should master:
 a system of working with information collected by using various tools (receiving, processing, storing, transmitting);
 spiritual and moral wealth and the system of main decisive issues;
 ways of mastering the existence logically and emotionally - figuratively;
 a system of research skills of scientific activity that ensures the ability of an individual to express himself;
 regulatory shaft system;
 methods of choosing a behavior model, taking into account the actual situation and cultural compatibility;
 basic education system on the design of the education system, the technology of creating target components and the content of the new type of education system.
Must be ready:
 to solve problems of personal and professional significance for students;
 to understand things that allow to understand the inner world of a person and his views;
 to satisfy the cultural needs of the individual through ways of self-development and independent education.
It should direct:
 choosing an educational strategy;
 identification of serious and unsolved problems in the environment (sphere) of education;
II. Psychological-pedagogical block A competent teacher should learn:
 unified understanding of the sphere of knowledge as a special form of humanitarian action, which ensures the transmission of culture from generation to generation;
 creating constructive relations;
 the ability to consciously realize the possibilities of knowledge and profession acquired in practical activities; able to maintain positive relationships within and between groups;
 being able to change the strategy of pedagogical influence according to changes in the situation;
 it is necessary to acquire the ability to pay attention to oneself and reflect on one's own psychological state, as well as to have the necessary conceptual-operational and motivational-personal training to solve educational problems.
Must master the following educational system:
 on the psychological features of personal training for the development of an individual in the social and cultural space;
 acquisition of skills system of research activities;
 to be able to rely on something;
 to have different abilities;
 mastering the system of regulatory shafts;
 to be able to reflect;
 to be ready for professional adaptation;
 to be ready to perform
It is the duty of every school teacher to master the components of the professional activity of a teacher with developed modern information competence.
The place of the computer in the educational process is determined according to the type of educational program.
Based on the analysis of specialized literature, we determined the following:
A number of training programs are designed to consolidate knowledge and skills.
Others aim to learn new concepts.
In addition, there are programs that give the "participants" the opportunity to discover new things, and in this respect, the computer differs in the work of art education.
In addition, there are many opportunities for training programs that implement problem-based learning, they will greatly benefit by modeling and analyzing real situations in work and professional training.
They contribute to the development of skills, making objective decisions in various situations.
In this case, taking into account the main connections in the educational system, it is advisable to follow the following plan in organizing the educational process:
 Determining the goals of ICT use;
 appropriate selection of software development;
 preparation of methodological assistance materials;
 organization of small groups with teachers.
 drawing up a study schedule, allocating time for computer use;
 using computer control or conducting control outside the computer, organizing inspections of teachers during regular break periods;
 to assess the successful use of introduced computer training programs;
 taking the final exam for the course (monitoring, conducting course work, etc.).
A lesson conducted using ICT (be it distance learning)
To provide methodological support, it is necessary to plan the educational material in advance, to increase the efficiency of the educational process, and to show the possibilities and directions of using software tools.
In order to succeed in organizing the educational process using ICT, the teacher himself needs to be informative or computer literate.
The concept of "computer literacy" appeared in the mid-80s of the last century.
Its appearance is due to the widespread distribution of personal computers and the fact that millions of people began to use them.
Until now, the concept of "computer literacy" has been given several definitions in pedagogical science.
For example, in the USA, the concept of "computer literacy" includes working with Basic, Logo-type languages and operating systems of personal computers.
B. Hunter explains that "computer literacy" is something that every person needs to know in order to be able to communicate with a computer and have a full understanding of it in the information society.
In the dissertation research of S.R. Domanov, "computer literacy of the teacher" is defined as the level of knowledge and skills that allow the use of methods and tools that allow the use of computer technology as a tool of pedagogical service.
We take the following approach to our research:
Computer or information literacy of teachers" is, first of all, knowledge of the basic capabilities of computer technology and the skills, methods and techniques of using computer technology in professional activities.
It is one of the most important indicators of information and cultural level of teachers.
The content of the concept of "computer or information literacy of teachers" changes along with the increase of its informational and cultural demands at different stages of society's development.
V. Kaimin believes that "information literacy" should first of all be understood as "... the ability to receive, collect, search, compile and present information with the help of computer tools using databases and various information systems."
Such technical skills will become more important for people according to the development of public information.
Broadly speaking, information culture includes, in addition to purely technical skills, the ability to express one's thoughts and ideas in literary, graphic and artistic forms using computers.
In addition, this culture should include the ability to communicate with people and to work cooperatively." In our opinion, information culture means:
 a set of specific mechanisms and principles that ensure the correct interaction of ethnic and national cultures, their mixing and unification with the experience of the general humanity;
 ways to effectively work with symbols, data, information and ways of presenting them to the customer to solve theoretical and practical problems, and mechanisms for improving the production of information storage, transportation and their technical means, as well as the development of the educational system, training people for the effective use of ICT improvement.
The information culture of modern teachers requires two different systems of education from them: educational and service education. (picture 2)
The first education system includes professional knowledge and professionalism-thought-field, and the second - professional thinking and professionalism-experience.
The professional education of teachers means conducting the educational process in accordance with the current humanitarian orientation.
Professionalism refers to a teacher's knowledge of the actual problems of teaching and how to solve them using ICT.
Professional thinking is the formation of a thinking style aimed at finding and developing effective methods of organizing the educational process.
Professional experience - the experience of being able to make competent professional decisions.
In this regard, the purpose of training in the ready-made system of improving the qualifications of teachers is to develop professional-personal education for them in accordance with the culture of the modern specialist.
After sifting through the above, it is better to make the following conclusion, the theoretical conditions of our concept of continuous computer training of teachers envisage a change in the level of the activity of using ICT and creating a level concept of the service.
It is important to guide the preparation of professionals with professional qualifications for the use of ICT at the initial stages of entry into the service.
In the period of teachers' professional-computer activity on the use of ICT, they acquire problem-solving orientation, which is reflected in the ability to effectively solve accumulated pedagogical problems adequate to social experience.
At a high level of ICT use, an individual realizes his creative activity at an innovative level and goes ahead of the established social practice.
The content of information culture is the development of skills in the correct use of an automated information system.
Improvement and development of these processes will influence the content of education.
Thus, the content of teachers' information culture consists of two parts: the knowledge system and the components of service (activity) creation (Figure 2)
Professionalism in Education refers to the components of knowledge and mindset that determine the quality of "professional competence" of teachers, while professionalism reflects "professionalism" in thinking and practice.
The formation of these two qualities is a prerequisite for teacher qualification.
Professional qualifications of teachers:
 learning goals;
 the psychological mechanism of learning the content of knowledge and ways of using them for the purpose of developing students in the educational process;
 signs of evaluation of didactic and developmental values of various information content;
 ways of working with different educational content;
 -Knowledge of effective use of ICT is included.
Skills of modern teachers:
 - the purpose-built imaging technology of the educational process for the actual teaching environment;
OPTIMIZING INFORMATICS TEACHING BASED ON USING THE OPPORTUNITIES OF CLOUD TECHNOLOGY
The article presents ways to optimize the teaching of computer science based on the use of cloud technology.
It can be said that in the process of using cloud technologies in the process of teaching computer science, putting all teaching-methodical tools, practical and theoretical tasks on the Internet is "floating in the air".
The use of cloud technologies in teaching informatics opens up many possibilities:
the ability to exchange letters, assignments, and questions among the participants of the educational process in on- and offline mode (using gmail, yandex, rambler, mail.ru, etc. services);
conducting lectures and consultations through Skype, Gtalk services;
the possibility of conducting lectures and practical work online (Youtube, Omlet.ru services are used);
group discussion of projects and research works (Facebook, "VKontakte" social network services, Google service are used).
Cloud computing has a great future, so any specialist who is connected with information technology must master this technology.
Keywords: google drive, cloud technology, informatics, Yandex.disk, dropbox, skydrive, network, o4tization.
It is clear that "cloud computing" is the most necessary service at the time when new technologies are developing day by day.
The programs on the Google service encourage us to use such technologies in the teaching of computer science.
Moreover, it is not wrong to say that tablets and mobile phones, which have been trending recently, contribute to the increase of mobile programs, the use of computing clouds, and the increase of their services.
Not forgetting the students, Google Corporation created an educational platform called Google Suite for Education.
Google Apps is a collection of web applications and information storage tools that run in a web browser and do not require any software installation, additional payment or purchase. Users can easily login to the service to access their documents.
Google Apps' communication tools include Gmail, Google Talk, and Google Calendar, and productivity tools include Google Docs:
iGoogle and Google Sites for creating text files, spreadsheets and presentations, web pages.
Google's cloud service is free, but if you need it, you can pay for the premium version and get more storage in the cloud.
The Education Edition includes many of the features of the Premium Edition and offers it to students for free [1].
As an example of the use of cloud technology in the teaching of computer science, let's consider the educational platform of Google Corporation called Google Suite for Education.
First, let's define what services the platform itself provides.
Google Suite for Education is a cloud service with e-mail, calendar and chat offered by Google.
This set can be supplemented with any applications offered by Google.
The most interesting thing is that users of this cloud service are given 15 GB of memory, but if they register for Google Suite for Education and at least five people work there, 1 TB of memory is allocated.
By simply doing math, if 5 people are allocated 1 TB of storage, we can see that each customer will be allocated 200 GB of storage [2].
By creating a page for learning on the Google Suite for Education platform, users, that is, pupils, students, teachers, have the possibility of continuous work and additional services:
 access to the Google Classroom page (the system for monitoring training included in the service);
 Registration for e-mail with an educational domain (instead of the word (@gmail.com), the address will be called @name of the educational institution.edu);
 Additional space in Gmail and Drive;  Absence of advertising;
 Technical support by phone or email (however, the Google team promises 99.9% uptime);
 Security during data transmission and storage;
 Ability to manage all accounts created in the educational domain [3];
Let's not dwell on how to create the information infrastructure of a school or higher education institution using Google Apps for Education, but let's create a methodology by considering the possibilities of using Google Apps services in computer science education.
The main task of Google-applications is to work together.
Google Docs and Google Sheets allow you to see all the changes made to the document in real time, make corrections, use the built-in chat.
It is considered an indispensable tool for group work [4].
For example: while teaching computer science, you can also open up the possibilities of cloud technology while teaching Word and Excel programs.
By keeping an electronic journal with these Google Sheets, parents and children will have the opportunity to see the teacher's grades in real time.
From the disk, we open the package that saves the project given during the lesson.
To do this, press the "Create" button, and in the window that appears, click the "New folder" button.
Give the name of the folder and click the "Create" button.
After clicking the button, our folder will appear in Disk.
Double-click the right mouse button to open the folder.
To prepare project documents, we add Google Docs from our folder.
To do this, click the "Create" button and select the "Google Documents" application from the window that appears. We open a text editor similar to Microsoft Word.
Text input can be done in real time.
The advantage is that a group of people can monitor text entry, change, and deletion in real time.
Also, as we can see from the text circled in red, there is no need to save the entered text.
The text will be saved from the moment you enter it.
In order for people in the group to be able to access the folder we opened and the documents in it, right-click the mouse and click the "Shared access..." button in the window that opens.
In the window that opens, write the gmail addresses of the group members and press the "send" button.
Even if a team member is sitting at home, we can see the changes he made to the text. The preparation of the project presentation can also be prepared with additional support in the cloud.
To do this, press the "Create" button and select the "Google Presentation" application from the window that appears.
The window that opens is an application that looks exactly like Power Point.
To change the style of the slides, select from the "Theme" section on the right side of the screen.
Click the "add" button on the left to add a new slide.
The inscription marked in red in the upper part says that all changes are saved on the disk, that is, you do not need to be afraid that you did not save your slides.
Next, we will create a survey based on the results of the lesson.
To do this, click the "More" button in the "Create" window that opens, and select the "Google Form" application.
To add a question to the survey, click the red "add" button and add the necessary questions.
After preparing the questionnaire, it is necessary to send it to the students.
To do this, press the "send" button on the upper right side of the screen, write the e-mail addresses of the students to be sent in the opened window, and press the "send" button on the lower right side of the window.
After completing the survey, we can click the "answer" button and see the results of the answers.
After the lesson, the teacher can use this cloud service application to evaluate the project.
To do this, click the "Create" button and select the "Google Sheets" application from the window that appears.
Using the "Google Sheets" application, you can divide children into groups by color and assign a grade for each day.
Right-click on the Google Sheets application to open a window for students to see their grades.
In the window that opens, click the button "Enable access via link".
You can set a deadline for homework using Google Calendar.
Select a day from the opened calendar, click the "reminder" button in the opened window, specify the name and time of the task, and then click the "create" button.
The indicated services may seem simple, but their main advantage is that they are easy and closely related to each other.
In conclusion, during the teaching of computer science, prepare a presentation related to the lesson using Google Slides, perform the teacher's task using Google Forms and Google Sheets, use Google Forms to survey the level of mastery of the topic in the lesson or the level of passing the lesson, or assign homework using Google Forms. , you can use Google Calendar to set a due date for the task and remind all students about the task.
THE IMPORTANCE OF USING PEDAGOGICAL TECHNOLOGIES IN EDUCATION ACCORDING TO THE UPDATED CURRICULUM
The article considers the importance of using pedagogical technologies in the teaching of computer science databases according to the updated curriculum.
The purpose of studying the subject "Informatics" according to the updated curriculum is to provide students with the basic knowledge, skills and abilities to effectively use modern information technologies.
To realize this goal, leveled learning technology, modular technology, problem technology and design technology are recommended.
Keywords: informatics, data, database, level-learning technology, modular technology, problem technology, design technology.
The updated educational content sets new tasks and new requirements for education, the level of preparation of school graduates.
The current information society aims to focus on a large amount of information from the younger generation, to search and quickly obtain the necessary information, to use and select information from various information sources.
The goal of teaching the subject "Informatics" according to the updated content of education is to provide students with basic knowledge, working skills and attitudes to modern information technologies for effective use.
A feature of its main tasks is to act on the effective use of information technologies by students in everyday life, study and future work [1].
Consider teaching the database content line in the updated computer science curriculum.
Database is a very important component of information systems.
A database is an information structure (model) implemented with the help of a computer, depicting the state of objects and their relationships [2].
There are many other definitions that reflect the subjective opinions of several authors [3].
The main content of the database The database for the 9th grade Informatics subject begins with the creation of a database in an Excel spreadsheet (Table 1).
Database: database, record, field; creating a database in an electronic table;
is aimed at mastering the actions of searching, sorting and filtering data. 9th grade includes 34 hours per year [1].
In the model curriculum of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the 10-11th grades of the general secondary education level (science-mathematical direction) of 2017 in the subject "Informatics" with updated content, the database is in the "Information systems" section:
Relational database; Creating a database; SQL queries are considered by content (Table 2).
The volume of the study load in the subject "Informatics":
10th grade - 4 hours per week, 136 hours per academic year;
In the 11th grade - 4 hours per week, 136 hours per academic year [4].
In the higher education system of the school, the professional orientation of students in the field of information search and storage technology has been strengthened, and the content of computer science education has included learning the types of activities and business skills related to the future professional activities of high school students.
The transition to the updated content of education was carried out in order to create conditions for increasing the readiness of high school students for future professional activities in order to realize their cognitive interest, aptitude, and ability.
It is important to use pedagogical technologies for the implementation of these tasks.
All educational technologies are aimed at forming students' personal learning skills [3, 4].
At the same time, in the course of the student's education, he uses the necessary information and technical tools and creates conditions for the student's in-depth education.
Based on the new pedagogical technologies of education, it is possible to monitor the level of education of students through a level education system, from simple to complex.
In particular, modular technology can be used as a basis for structuring the content of each chapter.
If we analyze the database content line at all stages of the curriculum, this chapter can be considered as one module.
According to the requirements of the updated curriculum, in the implementation of Bloom's taxonomy, the stages of knowledge, understanding, application, analysis, compilation, evaluation can be achieved by creating level tasks based on the use of level-differentiated learning technology for the complete mastery of students. The level of knowledge and ability of each student can be determined quickly by means of level assignments.
And by means of test tasks, it is possible to determine the level of mastery of the subject of the class and the individual student.
Nowadays, it is very important to bring the acquired knowledge and types of activities to the level where they can be used in practice.
The student can organize his work on his own at different levels.
When creating tasks for independent work, the degree of difficulty is developed according to the student's ability to study.
If the complexity of level tasks is organized on three levels, and if the tasks at all levels are interesting and content, students will be motivated.
The main goal of introducing graded tasks is to avoid artificially different classification of students into "able" and "disabled".
In this way, along with the principles of level and independent education, the principle of humanization for all students is preserved.
In the course of level education, the student's correct performance of the tasks of the first level is "reported".
No matter what kind of student he is, for example, regardless of whether he studies well, he starts his work by completing the tasks of the 1st level, even if it is easy for him.
All students start their work at the same time, and each of them reaches their own height according to their abilities in learning.
As a result of the "taking into account" system, there are also students with poor results.
At the very least, it is possible to fully master the knowledge corresponding to the level of "education".
Because he will not move to the next level until he completes and passes the tasks of this level.
After completely mastering the "mandatory" level, the student looks forward, strives forward, and his self-confidence increases.
Each of them is obliged to perform 1st level tasks and has the right to perform higher level tasks.
In this way, from one level to another, he gradually completes his knowledge and improves his abilities.
In this case, the performance of high-level tasks becomes the daily goal of every student.
For correct performance of level tasks, students receive points corresponding to mastering that level.
Of course, talented and hard-working students can take the tasks that require creativity at the highest level.
By completing level tasks, it is possible to collect more points and get a higher grade, and the principle of developmental learning is implemented.
As a result, conditions are created for the discovery of natural abilities and talents of students.
Деңгейлік тапсырмалар бойынша білімді дaйын күйіндe ұсынбaй, oқушылaр aлдынa міндeт (прoблeмa) қoю, oқушыны қызықтырады жәнe oның шeшу әдіс-тәсілдeрін тaбуғa ынтaлaндырaды, мұғaлімнің тікeлeй бaсшылығындa нe өз бeтіншe oлaрдың шeшімін тaбудың жoлдaры мeн әдістeрін зeрттeйді, яғни бoлжaм түзeді, oның шынaйылығын тeксeру тәсілдeрін бeлгілeйді and discusses, summarizes, analyzes the results, makes opinions, proves.
This proves the need for problematic technology in database training.
In conclusion, according to the updated educational content, the teaching of the content line of the database in the informatics course should be taught on the basis of pedagogical technology.
In particular, we recommend the use of modular technology in structuring the content, level-differentiated learning technology in the compilation of practical tasks, problem technology in the compilation of level tasks, and design technology for module approval.
USE OF INTERACTIVE EDUCATIONAL TOOLS IN TEACHING THE SUBJECT "ROBOT TECHNOLOGY"
The article considers interactive tools that can be used during the teaching of the subject "Robotics".
The subject "Robotics" in the form of a game teaches students how to program robots, the basics of design, assembly and solving engineering problems.
In addition, the types, possibilities, advantages and disadvantages, scope of application and methods of interactive tools that can be used in the subject "Robotics" are discussed.
That is, interactive board, interactive tablet, interactive projector, interactive application, additional devices such as remote control, stick, pen, manufacturers and system applications such as Smart Board and Promethean are considered.
Keywords: robotics, interactive learning tools, interactive application.
Educational robotics is a new phenomenon in our country.
But despite that,
Recently, it has been developing very rapidly and spreading to all corners of our country.
Educational robotics is a cycle of activities that combine programming and assembly to increase technical creativity, encourage students to study specific subjects and determine their professional orientation at an early age [1-4].
The main direction in robotics is to prepare one's own projects.
In this discipline, interactive communication must take place, because all participants must be ready to present their robots and be inclined to organize various contests and competitions.
But in order not to turn the educational process into a complete game, it is necessary to create a clear lesson plan.
At this point, interactive learning tools come to the rescue [5-7].
Robotics itself represents innovation and modernity.
The up-to-date approach to teaching this subject ensures an excellent platform for students to prepare their projects.
And interactive teaching tools help to decorate the theoretical part.
To develop robotics in educational institutions, it is necessary to acquire equipment first.
Today offers the following kits for assembling robots:
Lego Mindstorms EV3 is a designer for building a programmable robot [8].
It has a program with a simple interface and it makes the way to explain the material on the subject of "Robotics" effective.
Arduino is a small board with its own memory and processor [9].
On the board there are several contacts that can be used to connect lights, switches, sensors, diodes, control systems and all electrical components.
But programming in Arduino is more complicated than in LEGO construction, because the first requirement of the program is to learn the programming language.
Therefore, to use this kit, you need to be an expert in programming language, even if you are at the beginner level.
Application of new technologies related to the subject "Robotics".
It is known that work with robots often refers to practical work, but also a lecture part is provided.
Because some aspects of programming can be displayed on the screen of an interactive whiteboard and explained to the whole audience instead of being explained to each student individually.
In order to design their own robot, one of the students can stand in front of the group and use the interactive whiteboard to defend or demonstrate their project in front of the audience.
For example, with Lego Mindstorms EV3, you can program a robot by moving objects around, allowing students to demonstrate their knowledge and skills in front of a group using an interactive whiteboard.
This type of presentation of the material makes it possible to visually present one's project to colleagues and, if mistakes are made in the work, not to be repeated by others.
Thus, the interactive work of all students is a unique method of conducting the lesson.
In addition, special tests are created to test knowledge, and special consoles are used for its implementation and to see the results at the same time.
One of the most suitable applications for robotics is the Splashtop application.
Each student can show his programmed code to the teacher, and the teacher can remotely correct his mistakes by recording the video on the interactive whiteboard. Unfortunately, robotics is not a budget project and requires financial investments.
And not everyone can use expensive tools of interactive technologies.
Therefore, the use of smartphones during the educational process is one of the steps in the use of information technologies.
Therefore, additional space applications can be used in this subject.
One disadvantage is that converting the image into a 3D object still requires the help of specialists.
But this question is at the mercy of time, we believe that soon there will be a program that will connect image and 3D project in easy ways. In robotics, usability would be provided with visuals.
Sometimes a student, looking at the scheme, cannot visualize the project in volume, or a misconception appears.
The extra space shows us what this project will look like in real life.
Also, objects can move, which means we can see what happens when we program it.
Now let's talk about interactive learning tools.
The interactive application does not have any special worksheet, but it turns a simple whiteboard with markers into an interactive whiteboard.
This system is a huge advantage because it provides mobility.
The device is offered as a small collapsible tool and can be attached to a simple board of any size by means of vacuum suction cups.
The device itself is an acoustic antenna that receives ultrasound signals when the marker moves with the board.
Optional infrared scanning is also used.
As a result, the exact position of the marker and stylus is revealed.
All interactive applications are divided into three types:
work in the copy-board mode, work in the interactive whiteboard mode, and work in both of these modes.
Copyboard mode is not just for working with a projector.
The interactive application saves the image drawn using only simple markers.
This mode is only useful where handwritten text is used.
Interactive whiteboard mode is designed for working with a projector.
It allows you to save marks created on the projected image.
This mode is useful when you need to work with graphs and other images and mark them.
Completely replicates the interactive whiteboard with additional functions.
It can perform all the above actions, that is, it can work in interactive whiteboard and copy-board mode.
This puts the interactive application on par with the interactive whiteboard and also makes it more affordable.
But if we compare the features, the interactive whiteboard has the same features as it offers.
You can also attach the interactive application and take it and put it in another room with a marker board.
The interactive board has a strong anti-glare, anti-scratch surface, and the marker board can be any.
On the side of the interactive whiteboard is a selection of technologies, while the interactive application only works with ultrasound technology.
All interactive applications have both wired and wireless connectivity options, such as interactive whiteboards.
Additional advantages are that it is not bulky (fits into a small bag), can be carried from one classroom to another, but it requires a projector, and if the projector is installed incorrectly, the board will have shadows and interfere with the work when working with the board.
Interactive projectors.
First, they allow you to completely abandon various additional devices for working with videos during the educational process, which are designed to provide interactivity during work.
There is no need for an interactive whiteboard to perform these tasks anymore, nor is there a need for an interactive application to replace an interactive whiteboard.
It all started with the replacement of one of the three original devices (computer - projector - interactive board), and with the advent of the interactive projector, the third device was no longer needed.
The projector has taken on the task of not only producing video, but also processing the signals on the surface of the video, which is undoubtedly a great success, for example, you work as a business consultant or a university teacher and you need the capabilities of an interactive whiteboard for work, but it is everywhere If not, then "portable interactive whiteboard" will be an indispensable solution to your problems.
The average weight of a modern interactive projector is 3 kg.
Interactive projectors use a special interactive pen or marker that can be used to draw, mark and move.
The interactive pen can be used for video not only up close, but also from a distance, it works like a laser wand.
It gives complete freedom in working with projected video.
Interactive DLP-projectors do not require calibration at the beginning of work, so the projector always knows where the interactive pen is located.
When translating into Russian, the projector does not lose the ability to find the location of the "cursor" (interactive pen).
Even if you move an interactive projector or mouse, the interactive pen can act as a computer mouse.
Interactive projectors can have a short focus like other projectors. For example, if the projector is placed at a distance of at least 7 cm from the screen or cliff, the diagonal of the image it can project at this distance is 60”.
As for the advantages of the projector, it does not produce artificial shadows when working with the image, and the disadvantage is only in its price.
An interactive tablet is a modern tool for connecting to a computer and entering information.
Interactive tablets, like interactive whiteboards, are intended for use in the process of learning and teaching, presentations, reports, etc., in conference halls, assembly halls, educational institutions, public and state institutions.
The advantages are that it is cheaper than an interactive whiteboard and can sometimes be used with the functions of an interactive whiteboard using an interactive tablet and a simple screen.
In addition, the teacher can use the tablet to control the computer, leave notes, and write annotations and comments on computer programs.
And all this can be done by moving from any part of the audience.
The image is displayed on a screen or interactive whiteboard through a multimedia projector connected to a computer, and control is carried out from a tablet.
The interactive tablet helps to organize group and individual work and activities of students in classes or events.
At any time, the teacher can give the tablet to any student and give a task to solve the problem or continue the material.
Tablets can be distributed in the classroom (up to seven tablets per receiver) to get effective group work, and even competitions can be organized.
A tablet is a "control panel" of a computer and a means of entering information on the screen, board and computer.
The main advantage of the tablet is mobility, but some models go up to 15 kg, but have maximum functionality.
Interactive whiteboards have shown their work in educational processes, production and some professional institutions and organizations.
Fully functional interactive whiteboards usually consist of 4 components:
the interactive whiteboard itself, which can be equipped with a computer, a multimedia projector, software and a built-in printer.
The video is sent from the computer monitor through the projector to the interactive whiteboard, and the commands to the whiteboard surface are sent back to the computer via wired or wireless communication interfaces and are processed by special software.
Types of interactive boards.
Based on the main characteristics, the boards are divided into forward and reverse projection.
In direct projection boards, the projector is located in front of the interactive board, and in reverse projection boards, behind it.
Some models of interactive whiteboards may have special pocket personal computers for the purpose of information exchange.
There are also expensive interactive whiteboard models in the form of a large touch screen plasma panel that do not use a projector.
There are three types of interactive whiteboards:
1. Plates that fix the resistance surface during contact.
Such boards have a soft and flexible surface consisting of two parts.
The resistive material is at a small distance from the other surface of the board and transmits signals to the computer through a special membrane.
Such boards are controlled not only by special markers, but also by touching the board.
Special markers can also work with different colors (using the necessary software).
These boards are ideal for schools because they are reliable and do not require special devices that can get lost.
2. Plates fixing electromagnetic pulses.
These boards have a hard surface like regular boards.
Control is carried out by means of special electromagnetic markers that work with batteries.
On the surface of the board is a grid of thin wires that hold the field of a small magnet emanating from the marker.
3. The surface working layer of the laser plates is with an infrared laser scanner.
These scanners detect the movement of special pens, coded color and send it to the computer.
DViT (Digital Vision Touch) boards are close to this technology, they have small digital video cameras in the corners and they monitor every touch on the board.
A microscope, camera, digital camera or video camera can be connected to the computer and the interactive whiteboard.
And you can work with all visible materials during the lesson.
The interactive whiteboard may contain various interactive tools depending on the manufacturer.
Let's talk about some of the tools of the Promethean ACTIVInspire interactive whiteboard.
Interactive tools.
ACTIVpen is a tool that replaces a computer mouse when working with an interactive whiteboard.
The ACTIVpen electronic pen resembles a regular pen.
It is very comfortable and beautifully designed.
No wires or batteries and very light.
You can fully control your computer using the ACTIVpen electronic pen.
When the pen touches the board surface, when making drawings, when working with applications, an analog process similar to the action of clicking the left mouse button occurs.
Next to the ACTIVpen electronic pen there is a button, which corresponds to the right mouse button, with which you can call up additional options.
The ACTIVpen provides high accuracy when working with the ACTIVboard interactive whiteboard, minimal pen shadows, clear graphics, and more. can be created.
ACTIVwand - 54 cm long wand allows even small children to reach the top of the board.
There is a button next to the stick, which is analogous to the left mouse button.
When working with the ACTIVwand, the unique "rollover" and "hover" functions are available, which allow easy control of web pages and software.
Perfect for both left and right handed people to work from both the right and left side of the board.
ACTIVremote is a wireless device that allows you to control applications and slides downloaded on a computer.
With this device, you can open online resources using Internet browsers.
All commands can be programmed in a convenient way, making it easier to work with the board.
ACTIVarena is a set of pens, similar to ACTIVpen, but can support the work of two users simultaneously on an interactive whiteboard.
The pens are of different colors, one for the teacher and the other for the student.
ACTIVvote is a device for an interactive voting system.
The teacher asks a question and the students can choose their answer options using this device.
Answers are instantly checked and displayed as a chart or graph on an interactive whiteboard.
Maximum response options
- 6. ACTIVexpression – allows the ACTIVvote device to answer questions in the form of analog but digital messages, symbols, Likert scale and more.
These tools will help the teacher to conduct classes more effectively and more interestingly, there will be no need to conduct written tests, and students will be interested in lectures and practical lessons.
The main manufacturers of interactive equipment are Promethean (ACTIVboard boards) and Polymedia (SMARTboard boards).
All of Promethean's interactive tools are powered by ACTIVinspire software.
ACTIVinspire application is Promethean's new educational software for working with interactive whiteboards.
Program Features:
 It is possible to teach as on a simple blackboard, adjust the presentation speed, conduct a practical lesson.
 Write, draw, erase - just like on a simple board.
 Pages can be saved as flipcharts and used later in another group or with another audience.
 You can add pictures, movies, sounds to the flipchart.
 You can quickly extract the content of the lesson and quickly adjust the time of the lesson plan.
 You can add text from text editors or directly from the Internet.
 ActivInspire can even recognize handwriting and turn it into printed text.
 Voting and question-answer system.
Students can answer questions using special devices, and the answers can be displayed in different forms.
Learners can respond using ActivVote and ActivExpression.
 Can quickly modify flipcharts to suit answers or requirements.
 Simple and effective tools can be used to draw students' attention to the lesson.
 Depending on the version, you can import images and objects from digital cameras, scanners, PowerPoint presentations, SMARTNotebook files, SMART Gallery file elements, ExamView XML files, IMS QTI XML files, and resource packages.
 Software is available in 22 languages.
The SmartBoard application is a new software for independent interactive learning, which allows students to organize materials and tasks, track the time of work, keep their own electronic diary, calendar and upload completed tasks to SMART Notebook.
SMART Notebook is an environment for personal work of students, released in the form of a wristband on a flash drive, which makes it very convenient to use.
To get started, you can connect the flash drive to the USB port without any pre-configuration and use it at university, home, library and other places.
SMART Notebook is used for creating lessons and presentations.
Each SMART Notebook file consists of several pages.
Each page has its own objects, parameters, properties.
You can add and manage handwritten notes, objects, geometric shapes, Adobe Flash materials, tables on pages.
Files can be saved in any format that SMART Notebook software running on Windows, Mac, or Linux can open.
In addition, you can export your files to various formats, for example HTML and PDF.
The page sorter displays thumbnails of all pages in the file.
SMART Notebook sketches automatically update as pages change.
You can copy images, backgrounds, multimedia files, .notebook files from the Gallery to your pages.
The gallery also provides access to the following resources:
 Basic themes of the gallery - a collection of several thousand images and multimedia files grouped by themes.
 "Teaching Lessons" toolkit is a collection of tools and templates that allow you to organize professional-looking interactive lessons.
 Online resources - online content for teachers working with SMART tools, including training sessions, software, tips for using SMART tools.
In addition, you can attach copies and links to files, links to web pages.
It allows you to quickly find and open files and web pages during a presentation.
In conclusion, the use of interactive learning tools helps students to focus and learn the material much more deeply.
The use of additional spatial technologies, smartphones and interactive whiteboards will present information in an artistic way and will allow students to be interested in working in this direction in the future.
TOOLS AND METHODS OF USING INTELLECTUAL GAMES IN EDUCATION OF INFORMATICS
The main goal of modern modern education, along with updating the content of education, requires increasing the effectiveness of using teaching methods and various tools.
Therefore, based on this goal, during the teaching of computer science, it is better to focus on an interesting, visual explanation of the material in the textbook and on students' thinking, rather than a dry presentation.
This is the main problem of the teacher in direct creative search, using different effective methods for each lesson, to improve the quality of education of students.
This article deals with the concept of game, its purpose and types of games used in the educational process, as well as the concept of intellectual game used in teaching computer science and its function.
In addition, the types of intellectual games created in the Adobe Flash CS3 program and the LearningApps online application, aimed at creating intellectual games using various software equipment, are presented and ways of their use are provided.
Keywords: game, types of games, intellectual game, intellectual game function, Adobe Flash CS3 program, LearningApps online application.
The game is one of the forms of expression of human activity and the main activity of schoolchildren.
The well-known psychologist R. N. Nemov emphasizes: "The game improves focused activity, logical thinking, forms and develops the skills and abilities of business relations with people."
Students' participation in the game encourages them to express themselves, develops their perseverance, drive to achieve and other useful qualities necessary for their future adult life.
The ability to think improves during the game.
The pedagogical value of the game is that it has a positive effect on the formation of the general personality of the student, on the development of his mental abilities [3].
In addition, the famous teachers V. A. Sukhomlinsky, N. K. Krupskaya, K. D. Ushinsky emphasized the great practical importance of the game in the development of the thinking field of students, in the formation of world knowledge [1].
If the main goal of the game is to acquire knowledge while engaging the student, the task of the teacher is to help the students to work independently, to increase their mental activity and language skills, and to achieve the mastery of various skills and abilities using those types of games.
There are many types of games used in education. Among them, the role of intellectual game is special.
An intellectual game can be considered mainly from two points of view: the first is as a game, and the second is as a learning tool.
Any of them not only improves the student's ability to think theoretically, but also expands the range of knowledge and understanding, and creates conditions for the development of basic thinking operations (including analysis, analysis, synthesis, etc.), attention, memory, and imagination.
Intellectual games also have their own basic functions.
Among them:
 Learning function.
This function is aimed at solving specific tasks on the basis of education and training.
 Based on the refreshing function, there is an increase in emotional tone, surprising the student's thinking ability with unexpected events, and the formation of the correct emotional relationship between adults and children.
 Communicative function serves students to exchange knowledge with each other, to communicate properly during the game, and to show mutual respect.
 The educational function works on the strengthening of individual characteristics of each student, the absence of bad behavior in the character of students.
 The developmental function contributes to the development of the student, here only what areas of education the child has studied are considered.
Intellectual games are characterized by a cumulative structure depending on the purpose and task, the function of the player and the teacher.
Word puzzles, which are a kind of intellectual game, can be used in order to supplement the knowledge of students in the computer science course, introduce new concepts, and increase their interest in the subject.
Its feature is the development of the student's ability to think, leading students to active thinking and creativity.
While solving the word puzzle, the student can monitor his own knowledge, and the teacher can evaluate the work of each student.
In addition, it is necessary to teach students not only to solve word puzzles, but also to be able to create word puzzles on their own.
It is better for the teacher to explain to the students in advance the points to be taken into account during the compilation of word puzzles [2].
There are many types of word puzzles. They are crosswords, chainwords, cryptograms, anagrams, rebuses, pictograms, digitograms, fontograms, labyrinths, quizzes, crossnumbers, chainnumbers, etc. [3].
Word puzzles used in computer science can be used in the process of teaching and checking knowledge on various topics, when explaining a new lesson, confirming a new lesson, checking homework and repeating educational material, and in extracurricular activities.
Moreover, these games can be created using different software.
We offer the following types of puzzles created in Adobe Flash CS3:
During the performance of this task, students write their answers to the given questions in the corresponding box and allow to check the correctness of their answers.
Another application for creating intellectual games is LearningApps.
LearningApps is an online program that organizes the learning process using an interactive module (intellectual games, exercises).
This online supplement allows teachers to create, save and use intellectual games, and students to supplement their knowledge on the previous topic and provide free exchange with each other, organize the work of learners.
LearningApps is a joint research project of the Pedagogical College of Education PH Bern with the Universities of Mainz and Zittau/Görlitz.
The main task of the interactive educational application is a special multimedia program that teaches children in an interactive and interesting way.
LearningApps, a builder of interactive tasks, offers a wide variety of online applications for education:
"Quiz", "Tag words" "Puzzle", "Who wants to be a millionaire?" , "Find a Pair", "Where is this?" "Marking on the map", "Grouping", "Puzzles for assembly" [4].
Ready organized models are grouped by functional features:
 Selection - selects the correct answers from the tasks;
 Dividing into parts - finds consistency in tasks;  Systematization - organizes correct definitions;
 Filling - puts the correct answers in the tasks in the right places;
 Online game - the student competes with the computer or another student during the performance of the competition tasks.
A version of the brain games developed by LearningApps: "Find the Name of the Signs" (http://LearningApps.org/watch?v=p8e16qyh317).
The main condition of this game is to place the pictures and their names together.
If the answer is wrong, it will be marked in red and you will be given a chance to resubmit.
There is an opportunity to check the answer and resubmit.
If the answer is correct, a message about the correctness of the answer will appear (Figure 3).
"Identify" (http://LearningApps.org/watch?v=pts6753b317).
The following game tasks can be offered on the topic of raster and vector graphics.
The main condition: fill in the table according to the answer.
If we place the answer correctly, a message about the correct completion of the task will appear on the screen.
In case of mistake, it is possible to resubmit.
The following advantages of working with LearningApps can be noted:
1. Ease of creating and saving tasks;
2. Increases the activity of students towards lessons;
3. Variety of tasks;
4. Easy transfer from one place to another by link;
5. Integration of ready-made templates into your application, etc.
In conclusion, the use of intellectual games on computer science helps to reveal the individual characteristics of students, to increase the level of preparation for lessons, and allows the teacher to eliminate the shortcomings in the students' knowledge in a timely manner.
In the course of the game, the ability to solve certain problems, the ability to think independently, and the desire for knowledge awaken in the students.
The students are so interested in the game that they try to solve the problem with enthusiasm and develop their imagination further.
SYNTHESIS OF MODULAR SYSTEM MODELS OF DATA PROCESSING
This article provides an overview of the synthesis and analysis of data processing system models.
An overview of information-reference, real-time automated systems and dialog systems was made.
Design models of modular data processing systems are considered in terms of discrete programming, graph theories and their updated solutions.
The main tasks of designing a data processing system are the synthesis of application software and databases, and the latter are often carried out by using the knowledge and experience of real developers so far. In this regard, the article describes the effective models, methods, algorithms and complex of programs of the data processing system. class and target modular data processing systems were studied.
Keywords: Information and reference systems, dialogue systems, real-time automated systems, distributed data, local database, synthesis, modular system.
Currently, formal methods of designing application programs and databases, systems for automating their design, and systems for automating the processes of creating programs have been developed.
Studies have shown that when developing formal models and methods of data processing system design, problems are usually formulated as discrete programming problems, and it is well known that solving these problems requires a lot of work and is difficult.
In this regard, there is a need to produce fundamentally new approaches, problem statement and methods of solving them, which ensure effective solution of information and application software design problems.
At the same time, when building complex information systems, such equipment cannot always ensure the quality of the project and reduction of processing time.
Therefore, there is a need to create formal models and methods of database design of application software and data processing system.
One of the directions of such operations is to develop a model and method of analysis and synthesis of modular and typical modular data processing systems.
Information and reference systems.
The synthesis of modular data processing systems in the technical design stage consists of data processing system structures formed in the form of a functional block diagram by taking into account the effective selection of the composition of software modules, information arrays, the composition of the inter-module interface, the ordered technical and economic characteristics of the functioning of the processed system.
The minimum criterion of the complexity of the inter-module interface is used to make the system design process more efficient.
The optimization of the used characteristics can be carried out according to one of the following criteria depending on the specific situation:
a minimum of time exchange between operational and external memory, reducing the technological complexity of data processing algorithms, which is a generalization of the "transport factor" indicator in the implementation of algorithms for solving functional problems proposed by Langefors [1].
In addition, for information systems, it is important to increase the productivity of information and ensure the accuracy of data processing.
The problems posed in the synthesis of modular block diagrams of data processing are formulated as non-linear integer-valued programming problems.
Their solution is based on "branches and bounds" methods and algorithms using the main features of module design are presented.
Real-time automated systems.
In the processing of a number of management systems, the high efficiency of problem solving in management and information processing is considered, providing the required time for speed, but allowing their management to effectively influence the work in individual cases [2].
Automated systems that meet these requirements are called automated real-time data processing systems.
We consider synthesis methods of effective modular systems of real-time data processing.
As efficiency criteria of the synthesized system, one of the mentioned real-time data processing systems is used in the non-priority service of orders in the time-sharing mode for the designed system, and in the priority service, the maximum performance criteria of the real-time data processing systems and the maximum of the system readiness coefficients are used, and in the multiprocessor service The characteristic that determines the effective module in the analysis of the synthesis of real-time data processing systems is the cost of users in the process of using the system.
In the synthesis of real-time data processing systems, the main constraints in solving problems are used for service time and stability of the overall system functioning mode [2].
Software modules and procedure composition, size and composition of information arrays, degree of duplication of information elements and procedures of real-time data processing systems are additional restrictions.
Synthesis problems are solved in terms of technological and applied constraints, the main of which are the limitation of the stability of the system functioning mode due to the average time of waiting for the order in solving the problem, the complexity of the interface.
Problems of the synthesis of modular real-time data processing systems are presented in integer-valued nonlinear programming modules, the algorithms for their solution based on the "branches and bounds" method are presented.
To obtain a solution using the algorithm, we compare the complexity estimated by the total number of steps by the well-known method of "branches and bounds" for solving combinatorial type discrete problems.
Dialogue systems.
The current level of development of computer technology, especially personal computers, has caused an immediate increase in the capabilities and number of interactive systems of modular data processing systems, as well as their users.
Typification and analysis of users' information requirements, synthesis of typical modules of dialogue for many users, information requests belonging to one area, creation of effective dialogue systems, which includes the synthesis of information and modular software of dialogue systems, includes its own complex problems [3].
In the synthesis of effective modular dialogue systems, the following types of system and technical characteristics are used:
costs of creating and mastering systems and subsystems, time spent on development and creation, operating costs, costs in the system caused by not delivering information to the user on time, loading, quality and configuration of technical equipment used in solving user problems, accuracy of processed information, information productivity of systems, software and dialog systems reliability of technical support, relevance of requests made by the system, interaction time of dialog systems in fulfilling user requests according to given scenarios, convenience and time of users forming requests, degree of approach to work on a real time scale, RAM required for placing system software modules and information arrays, speed, access to additional devices access time, the cost of the total and technical equipment complex taking into account ergonomic requirements, technical equipment in the network architecture degree of distribution [4].
In the synthesis of dialogue systems, the criteria for efficiency are the following: the minimum total time for creation and development, the maximum information productivity of dialogue systems, the maximum level of precision in information processing, the relevance of many requests, the maximum level, the protection of dialogue systems from unauthorized use, the minimum computer load. Effective criteria for the dialogue process in dialog systems are the following:
maximum dialog power, information productivity, minimum average time, minimum number of cycles to the external memory when passing the request, maximum number of simultaneous users of dialog systems, minimum time spent by the user of dialog systems.
It is better to use mainly economic indicators in the selection of dialog systems.
In the synthesis of modular dialogue systems, the problem of effective division of dialogue systems into multigraphs according to certain local scenarios of dialogues is based on the existence of marked or colored arcs in subgraphs that ensure the minimum of the total weight of different colored arcs connecting the subgraphs with structural constraints.
This problem is based on an integer-valued nonlinear problem of quadratic programming, which is in turn reduced to a linear program by introducing additional variables and constraints, which allows using standard software packages to solve it.
The problems of the synthesis of the software service structure for dialog systems are reduced to nonlinear integer-valued programming problems, the method of "point and bounds" and other methods are used for their solution.
In the study of data processing systems, the process of analyzing the characteristics and requirements of a set of objects for which typical automation is applied, the selection of methods and automation of the data on the large number of individual design solutions to the limitation of the set of solutions that effectively fulfill the requirements of the objects are explained.
The options for choosing typical solutions are based on the sufficient degree of requirements of the analyzed objects of automation.
The higher the degree of generalization, the simpler the effective process of selecting, creating, and implementing typical design solutions.
Using the principles of modularity and typicality in the study of data processing systems allows for the synthesis of functionally independent typical modules that perform summary calculations of functions for selected objects of automation with the required efficiency, and to connect their design [5].
The first strategy of modular design is universal and assumes the synthesis of typical software and informational operations for the closest problems of the same class.
The implementation of this strategy is primarily related to the processes of analyzing the characteristics and requirements of data research, the analysis of the characteristics and requirements of the objects of analysis, the analysis of the general specific parts of the analyzed reports of data research.
The second and third strategies require the availability of software modules or ready-made prototypes, which are taken as the basic design options.
System-wide, minimax, and complex criteria for designing active systems theories can be used in the synthesis of typical modular data processing systems.
The former are extremes of summary quality indicators for data research reports or users, and the latter are guaranteed quality of synthesis for users in data research.
The third type of criteria is used to select typical design solutions in cases of mismatch of objective functions or central extremum points and system elements.
Typical modular database system synthesis problems are reduced to nonlinear and linear integer programming problems and are solved using special methods based on the "points and bounds" scheme and well-known standard packages.
Synthesis of database structures. The creation of a modern modular database system is closely related to the widespread development of computer networks, local and distributed databases, information distribution systems [6].
The synthesis of the logical structure of the distributed database is logically considered the process of searching for an effective option that represents the canonical structure of the distributed database, which provides the effective value of the given criteria for the efficiency of the functioning of the distributed database and satisfies the basic requirements and limitations imposed on the logical structure during the research period of the technical report.
In order to map the canonical structure to the logical one, the methods of grouping together the records of the logical types into the canonical structures of the distributed database are used with simultaneous distribution at the nodes of the computing networks.
The results obtained during the synthesis of the efficient logical structure of the distributed database are preliminary for the design of the structure of the network catalog, the logical structures of the local databases, as well as for the design of efficient network protocols that ensure the prevention of deadlocks and mutual blocking in the functioning of distributed databases.
An important component of the structure of the logical level of distributed data banks is the network directory, which provides the main functions of managing distributed data banks, the statistics of the operation of various types of records in local databases, the characteristics of data record types and groups of information elements that are taken into account to ensure the access of users to information. about, the data of local databases constitute information about the location of record types.
The design of the structure of the network directory is carried out on the basis of the information obtained in the synthesis of the stages of the design of canonical structures and the efficient logical structure of the distributed database.
In the process of designing a structure in a network directory, the selection of an effective type of its structure, effective placement of the main directory in the computer network, effective ways of access to network directories by users of the computer network, effective parameters for the organization of network directories, the content and size of the exchange page between the RAM and an external memory device are solved [ 7].
The result of problem solving at this stage of logical design provides users of the computing network with an effective amount of network access in the process of correcting the directory and fulfilling user requests, taking into account the geographical location, as well as an effective amount of exchange between the RAM and external storage devices in the process of local functioning of the network directory in distributed data banks. is an efficient network directory structure.
The logical structure of the online catalog is fixed, because the size of the hierarchical level corresponding to the size of the information display level and other parameters of the logical organization in distributed data banks are determined and do not depend on the specificity of the users' object area.
Therefore, the main issue of designing a network directory is the choice of its structural type, which determines the existence and nature of the relationship between the main and local directories in the process of implementing the functions of managing the execution of information processing procedures by distributed data banks.
The researched models and settings of the synthesis allow to solve the functional features of local databases, regulatory problems and real-time data research problems in information input modes.
Solving set problems provides identification of selected records as point input to the logical structure of local databases [8].
The main efficiency criteria used in the synthesis of the logical structure of local databases are the minimum time of information input and the provision of requests, the minimum number of records, the minimum number of ways to access the searched information elements, as well as the criteria for correcting the accuracy of information of local databases.
Limits on the composition and number of logical records, on the number of points, on the structure of connections between them, on the logical structure of storage, which provide efficiency criteria for the functioning of a distributed database at the physical level.
Conclusion The studied methods, models, algorithms and complex of programs are widely used in the design practice of modular data processing systems of various classes and purposes.
By using the obtained results, the principles of creating an algorithm were formed and simulation models were provided for algorithmic support, structure, main elements of automated systems for designing effective modular data processing systems, as well as analysis of information research technology at the system level.
CURRENT SITUATION OF USE OF ELECTRONIC TEXTBOOK IN INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY
Today, economic, social, cultural changes in the society, the attempt to enter the national education system and space require new approaches to the field of higher education.
Informatization of the educational system, training of competitive future specialists using new technologies in the educational process is an urgent issue of today.
In this article, it is stated that information teaching in higher educational institutions, by using advanced models of technologies, will update the scientific-methodological system of education, expand the types of teaching methods and approaches, organize the creation of electronic textbooks, and bring the level of national education closer to the international standard.
Key words: electronic textbook, didactics, information technology, computer technology, state standard, education reform.
On the eve of joining the ranks of the civilized states of Kazakhstan, personal computer has a special place in preparing a person to live in an information society and harmoniously developing creative and cognitive activities, forming cognitive needs and interests.
Therefore, it is necessary to direct the curiosity of the younger generation to the knowledge of the truth through the flow of information.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" establishes the principle of multi-variability in the selection of educational reform and technologies, which allows teachers and pedagogues of the institution to use the optimal version for themselves, to recognize the pedagogical process with any model, even the author's model.
The future of our independent country is today's students of higher educational institutions, future qualified specialists.
To educate them in accordance with the requirements of the modern age, to develop knowledge independently, to have their own point of view, to improve lesson forms and their structure, and to use new and different methods of teaching is in line with today's requirements.
The content of the service performed with the help of computer technology is possible to implement instant exchange of messages on the network (Internet, e-mail, video conferences).
Modern sources of information - compact systems and powerful processors allow to create high-quality programs aimed at increasing the knowledge of students, which include text information, photos, video simulations, audio accompaniment.
The Internet system is interconnected with the world computer system and can provide information on any topic.
Its uniqueness from the encyclopedia is supplemented and updated with additional information.
Through the Internet, the student collects and assimilates information in a short time.
One of the students has the opportunity to study until he has completely mastered the topic, that is, there is no time limit.
Information technology allows to supplement the hypertext of the electronic textbook as much as possible.
The use of an electronic textbook expands the student's highly active worldview and scope of work, helps to differentiate the teaching process, to provide comprehensive information, and to enlarge the educational content.
Among the main obligations that must be implemented in the process of new technology in higher educational institutions, the following can be mentioned:
1. Formation of socially valuable forms and habits of behavior;
2. Learning the ways of performing technological methods, training in operational actions;
3. Development of technological thinking, teaching of independent planning, standardization of algorithm improvement activities.
One of the features of new teaching technologies is the need to find a complex place for each technological department, system, chain, method in a unified pedagogical process.
No technology can replace a person's own, human relations, the influence of willpower and the formation of life.
Today, special attention is paid to training students of higher educational institutions to skillfully apply theoretical knowledge in practical activities, to teach them to work on the basis of demonstrating the features and possibilities of new pedagogical technologies.
The most intensive transfer of information technologies to the educational system is expanding the field of pedagogical possibilities of computer technologies, as well as increasing the cognitive tools in the educational process and influencing the effectiveness of teaching methods.
Pedagogical literature shows the following methods of education:
vocabulary, visual, practical.
The vocabulary method can be classified as an educational method.
The visual method makes it easier to receive any message and then learn it, but any illustration will not give results if the information is not in words.
Since the computer is the main tool after the traditional writing skills, it is conceivable that it has unlimited possibilities for information exchange.
New information technologies increase the efficiency of the educational process and free it from "hand movements".
For example, the drawing that the student draws on the blackboard is ready on the computer screen.
The global field of the Internet brings the possibilities of the teacher to the most limitless state.
The student, in turn, can use the largest libraries in the world and learn about the most precious treasures of world culture.
New information technologies make it possible to bring dynamic processes and models to qualitative levels.
Since the results of the educational process are used in advance in the information technology of education, it helps the student to fully understand the technological and pedagogical features of the educational activity in the computer system, and to understand the importance of this activity in real life.
Computer technology creates a favorable environment for the introduction of certain pedagogical technology into the educational process, allows students to increase their appreciation for studying the facets and secrets of their future professional profession, and to effectively manage their educational activities on their own.
The use of information and computer technology creates different types of business based on independent research.
Each student has the opportunity to enter the global educational space through computer technology, the Internet, distance learning, and e-mail, to obtain all the necessary information that meets his needs, to find the necessary information, to search for advanced practices related to science, and also to get acquainted with the scientific news of foreign countries.
In the period of informationalization of the society, the flow of information is constantly increasing and updating, qualitatively new requirements are placed on the educational process, its content, methods, forms of formation and types of management.
Educational information technology can be considered as a system of cognitive, psychological-pedagogical, software-technical and educational measures aimed at the development of students' independent cognitive activities, management of teaching and learning, as well as solving educational and practical programs from a game, human-machine point of view.
Information technology allows to master the message in an unlimited amount and to process it technically, this information is given in a generalized, systematized form, not statically, but dynamically.
Information technology makes it possible to create a system in the virtual space and to associate the cognitive process in the form of computer games that increase cognitive activity.
Computer technology is distinguished by the versatility of human cognitive-research activity, and its importance as a multifunctional tool.
Due to the public demand, the quality of education and the efficiency of the process in higher educational institutions should be developed effectively.
In this regard, attention is paid to training using problem-based production, educational-business games, programmed training, automated training tools.
With the help of a computer, it is possible to establish feedback, which has many opportunities for prevention, control, and general orientation during learning.
We believe that the teacher, using the possibilities of new information technology, implements technical requirements and at the same time:
- affects the achievement of pedagogical goals in the use of information technology in the educational process;
- clarifies the logical structure and delivery of the actual educational work during the opening of the educational material;
- selected information technology is considered together with other technical examples of training;
- can use information technology in harmony;
- can demonstrate group features, peculiarities of educational material and new information;
- analyzes and comprehensively considers fundamental, key issues within the framework of the taught subject.
During the use of information technology, the teacher's information and educational program will not be the main source of information, the message channel will expand.
However, it cannot be said that it harms the reputation of the teacher, therefore, the teacher actively communicates with students, monitors their academic success, organizes and analyzes data obtained through information technology, and takes steps to achieve its internal connections and laws.
The effectiveness of information technology depends on its pedagogical and technical qualities and the teacher's specialized training during its use, as well as on the place and conditions of use.
Teaching with an electronic textbook makes people accustomed to early use of information and communication technologies.
This will increase the efficiency of practical use of knowledge in the future.
He describes e-learning technology as a new style of learning and a technology for living in an information society, a technology for continuous knowledge improvement and business and skill development.
The main feature of the e-textbook is the management system of the learning process, the tool for systematization and diagnosis of knowledge, the use of the verbal method, the high level of visual use, multimedia tools, and other types of training.
The level of EO is divided into two types:
- a system of exercises and problems that fully meets the requirements of the state standard, includes basic theoretical materials, and develops practical skills and abilities; tools and methods of teaching process management, methods of final examination, level of assessment of acquisition of basic knowledge;
- includes additional theoretical materials;
departments that satisfy the student's professional and creative needs, classify them into levels such as didactic tools for managing the learning process.
Based on didactic laws and technology, the creation of an electronic textbook contributes to the automation of education, further qualitative improvement of the relationship between the learner and the teacher.
Therefore, considering the current situation and technological possibilities of electronic textbooks in improving the professional training of future teachers, we believe that we have differentiated the path of future development.
IMPROVEMENT OF MANAGEMENT COMPETENCE OF FUTURE PRE-SCHOOL ORGANIZATION SPECIALISTS THROUGH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
This article describes the need for managerial competence, which is one of the most pressing issues in the preparation of preschool organization specialists.
Emphasis is placed on the fact that managerial competence is the main issue of implementation in coordination with modern information technologies, and it is revealed that it cannot be ignored.
Taking into account the fact that the society needs specialists who know their work well and have a lot of professional knowledge due to the changes in the content and characteristics of its socio-economic and spiritual development and the increase in the demand for the quality of work, the types of competence that they should master in the training of specialists have been described.
The requirements for raising the level of professional training and training of specialists with a high level of creativity, who are able to use their knowledge and skills in various fields of activity, in accordance with the existing labor market, are noted.
It was said that higher educational institutions should feel a great responsibility and train qualified, skilled, competitive, wide-ranging, comprehensively developed, professionally competent specialists, that is, they should organize their entire activities in this direction.
It is stated that it is possible to improve management competence of future preschool organization specialists through information technologies only when these issues are implemented.
Keywords: preschool organization, preschool organization specialist, information technologies, competence, managerial competence.
As a result of the implementation of the State program for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020, "Education that ensures the formation of a professionally competent individual, a competitive specialist capable of solving professional tasks independently and creatively, understanding the personal and social significance of professional activity, and being responsible for its results that an efficient supply management system will be created" - it is noted [1].
We all know that humanity is reaching the XXI century with great scientific and technical achievements.
Highly developed electronic equipment, industrial technologies, achievements of medical sciences, novelties in genetic engineering, as well as other achievements, greatly facilitate the development of human society and human functioning.
It is clear that complex changes in society place new demands on the development of the human factor every year, therefore it is important for each person to be a person who can quickly adapt to social changes, creatively implement their knowledge.
In recent years, various opinions about the formation of competence of future specialists in the field of education are often expressed.
The question of determining competence is causing new thoughts and debates among educators and philosophers.
In higher educational institutions, it is necessary to create conditions for future preschool organization specialists to be able to use their knowledge not only in theory, but to achieve successful results in practice.
Although a student of a higher educational institution has a good theoretical knowledge of all subjects, he may not be able to apply his knowledge in pedagogical practice.
The reason is that his level of professional competence can be seen in practice.
Memorizing knowledge and retelling it when asked by the teacher is still not considered real knowledge.
Real knowledge is knowledge that is used in practice and shows results.
At this point, the philosopher Confucius said:
"If you tell me, I'll forget, if you show me, I'll remember, if you do it to me, I'll learn."
Special changes in today's Kazakhstani educational nature direct the "free development of man" to the development of his high culture, creative activity, independence, competitiveness, adaptability.
In this regard, it has been said and proven that all the competencies that are formed in a person should start from his youth.
Competencies that need to be formed will be thorough only when they are carried out consistently in preschool organizations.
This knowledge, skills, skills need to be approached from a new perspective.
That is, it is necessary to implement it by making additions to the content of the preparation of preschool organization specialists.
Changes and innovations in the educational system in the field of training of pedagogical personnel for preschool organizations are the problem of formation of professional training of future teachers to organize the pedagogical process in preschool organizations, readiness to educate the minds of preschool children.
However, there is a need to pay enough attention to the directions of professional competence formation of teachers in preschool organizations, monitoring the quality of preschool education and training, innovative activities of educators, professional skill formation of preschool specialists, and research on the quality management system of preschool organizations.
The need for informatization of education in pre-school organizations is the tendency to comprehensively use new information technology in the theory and practice of education and to apply its capabilities in such a way as to realize the psychological-pedagogical goals of education and training.
According to Alvin Toffler, a well-known researcher of modern society, the end of the 20th century is a completely new period in the development of society, which is fundamentally different from the previous ones.
The arrival of this new form is due to the development of information technologies [2].
According to the definition adopted by UNESCO, information technology is the methods of interaction and organization with interconnected scientific, technological, industrial equipment, which studies the method of effective organization of the work of people engaged in information storage and processing.
Information technology includes all resources necessary for information management, especially computers, software and networks necessary for the creation, storage, management, transmission and retrieval of information [2].
The World Wide Web is one of the main characteristics of information technologies as a worldwide system of joint computer networks for storing and distributing information.
The demand of the times requires the training of specialists with established information competence, regardless of the level of education.
This requires the training of a specialist who is well versed in information technology and able to skillfully use its types of tools, software, and resources implemented with it in their professional activities.
First, if we explain the concepts of competence, competence, explaining "competent" from a philosophical point of view opens the way to innovations and new introductions related to human knowledge and practice, and also allows to determine the educational requirements for the pedagogical situation.
From this point of view, competence (Latin word competents - appropriate, capable) is the mastery of the meaning of the work to be performed, the methods of achieving the set goal, as well as the presence of business skills and abilities corresponding to that work.
In the science of pedagogy, "professional competence of a teacher" is determined by the unity of the teacher's theoretical and practical preparation for professional activities.
That is, what will be the final result of education in the field of competence that we are considering is relevant.
Thus, summarizing the given definitions, in our opinion, the concept of "competence" is the subject's conscious understanding of the purpose of the action and the means of its implementation.
Kenzhebekov B.T., Taubaeva Sh.T., Kudaibergenova K., Turganbaeva B.A. considered the issues of general and special professional competence formation in the professional training of future teachers in Kazakhstan. the works of other scientists are of great importance[3].
Today, a specialist in preschool organization is required not only to be a deep expert in his field, but also to have pedagogical-psychological literacy and information literacy.
The need to improve the quality of teaching staff of pre-school organizations is emphasized.
In this regard, the purpose of professional training of teachers also changes.
The process of formation of professional competence includes the formation of professional knowledge, skills, actions, the general cultural development of the teacher, the formation of his own attitude and valuable personal professional qualities.
The managerial competence of a preschool organization specialist is recognized and implemented in different ways in everyday pedagogical activity.
Professional training of the future preschool organization specialist is currently an urgent issue, and we will focus on the following types of professional competence that they should master:
Information competence - mastery of information technologies, ability to work with all types of information;
able to independently search, analyze and select necessary information, organize, update, store and deliver them.
Professional competence is the ability to carry out professional activities aimed at the personal and social development of learners;
to contribute to the formation and socialization of the general culture of an individual, the conscious choice and consistent mastering of vocational education programs;
use of various means and methods of social education; to influence the coordination of the social sphere of educational institutions;
regularly raising his professional qualifications, participating in the work of methodical associations and other types of methodical work, communicating with parents.
Special competence is the ability of a preschool organization specialist to master professional activities at a sufficient level, to be able to plan his future professional development.
The future specialist, being constantly in search, should selectively use the methods of modular teaching, rating system, developmental teaching, and critical thinking technologies based on the child's ability and level of acceptance through his own research.
In addition, he should be able to skillfully use the same knowledge in his work in addition to improving his psychological and pedagogical knowledge. Communicative competence is the ability to establish and maintain the necessary relationship with other people, to be clear, to communicate freely; mastering high-level culture [4].
Management competence is knowledge of the way and method of managing preschool specialist's activities and activities of students.
The mentioned types of professional competence can be achieved by the future specialists of the preschool organization on their own in acquiring new knowledge and skills and using them in practical work.
Today's demand is to develop the child's mind, improve his intellectual ability, form his own business qualities, improve his thinking ability, and form his own business qualities.
Teaching computer literacy in kindergarten is integrated with the subjects as a supporting subject.
In pre-school organizations, it is intended to develop the ability to independently solve any problem and show successful results through the acquired theoretical knowledge, knowledge, and skills in the direction of managerial competence.
The relevance of this direction can be seen from the problem of the gap between theory and practice, which is reflected in the social environment.
The inability of students at any level of education to closely combine theoretical knowledge with practice requires reconsideration from the purpose of education to its results.
Management is the art of knowing what needs to be done and how it can be done as well and cheaply as possible (Taylor).
Since the quality and effectiveness of preschool organization work depends on the efficiency of management, in order to perform the main tasks in practice, it is important for a future preschool organization specialist to have not only general professional and pedagogical competence, but also knowledge and skills in the field of management activities.
In this regard, for the education system, the task of forming a future pedagogical worker-manager with managerial competence of a preschool organization specialist is becoming urgent.
The future preschool organization specialist has a lot of responsibility.
He must be an expert in his field.
He is a manager and an educator at the same time.
To implement it, future preschool organization specialists must constantly improve their level of competence and fulfill the following requirements [5].
Preschool organization requirements for the formation of specialist managerial competence:
- to be able to contribute to the harmonious formation of key competencies of future specialists in education;
- to be able to determine one's life position;
- ability to constructively solve various problems in accordance with moral norms;
- able to communicate with himself, people and the surrounding world;
- ability to show creative activity, citizenship and patriotism and tolerance;
- to show readiness to choose from a moral point of view, to be responsible for one's work;
- to constantly develop the skills of serving the society;
- ability to form experience of moral behavior in education and life situations;
- ability to identify children's creative abilities and interests;
- mastery of information and new pedagogical technologies;
- the ability to solve problems in an alternative way and make the optimal choice within the framework of personal cognitive activity based on mastering the methods of learning from various information sources.
There is no doubt that a specialist of a modern preschool organization will turn to Internet resources during the practical implementation of the knowledge that should be taught to the child in his professional activities. This is because Internet resources are the main helper to get out of the deadlock.
However, the existing Internet resources cannot be a real didactic tool because they are not based on a specific purpose and are not based on the acquisition of special knowledge, they are created without a system and do not take into account linguistic features.
A specialist in preschool organization monitors and organizes the use of Internet resources that lead to such gaps and negative, even misleading.
That is why the training of preschool organization specialist with informational competence is on the agenda.
In pre-school organizations, the task is to increase the efficiency and quality of educational activities while dynamically developing them.
The specialist of the modern future preschool organization should be qualified in the methods of teaching, education and development of preschool children, as well as in the management of methodological activities.
Methodological activities in pre-school organizations belong to management because they direct the work of the pedagogical team to solving the tasks of educational programs.
Increasing the level of professional competence of educators and teachers within the framework of the use of modern educational programs and technologies in the educational and educational process of preschool educational organizations:
forming a unified knowledge of preschool teachers and teachers about modern interactive forms of working with preschool children in various activities;
- development of the ability of educators and teachers of preschool organizations to use information and communication technologies for interactive interaction with preschool children;
- improvement of the need for self-education among educators and teachers of preschool organizations in the context of modernization of preschool education.
The process of modernizing the entire system of education due to integration into the global educational space places high demands on the organization of preschool education and training, and accelerates the search for a new, most effective psychological and pedagogical approach to this process.
At the stage of modern development of society, innovative processes primarily affect the preschool education system as the first level of revealing the child's potential abilities.
The development of preschool education, the transition to a new qualitative level is impossible without the preparation of innovative technologies.
Innovations define new methods, objects, tools, technologies used in pedagogical practice focused on the child's personality and development of his abilities.
At the stage of modern development of Kazakhstan, changes are taking place in educational processes: the content of education is becoming more complex, turning the attention of teachers in the preschool education system to the creative and intellectual development of children, to the correction of the emotional-volitional and movement spheres;
traditional methods are replaced by active methods of education and training aimed at activating the child's cognitive development.
Although the preparation of the preschool organization specialist is good, the formation of his skills takes place during practice.
In those first years of work, as a result, the qualities that determine how competent a teacher will be in his work are intensively developed.
The function of the teacher of the young preschool organization is to discuss and approve the work plan.
He studies the general educational programs of preschool education, regulatory documents, methodological literature on educational and educational issues.
Provides consulting assistance through seminars, trainings, expert consultations, practical classes, mutual participation in classes.
Determines the appropriateness of the subject-developing environment and the educational process to the age difference and personal characteristics of the students, to the educational programs of preschool education.
Summarizing our thoughts, the future preschool organization specialist must be ready for managerial competence.
Professional training of specialists, knowledge acquired during education, experience, ability to mobilize personal and social qualities constitutes his professional qualification and is measured by his ability to use it effectively in his practice.
All structural components of the formation of managerial competence depend on the activity of future specialists in educational organizations, in particular, the ability to solve specific pedagogical situations.
So, in our opinion, the labor market formed today has an impact on the requirements for the level and quality of management training of specialists who are educated, have a high level of creativity, and are able to use their knowledge and skills in various fields of activity.
In this regard, it is a legitimate phenomenon for higher educational institutions to feel a great responsibility and strive to train qualified, skilled, competitive, wide-ranging, comprehensively developed, professionally competent specialists, and to build their entire activities in this direction.
The reason is that the society needs specialists of preschool organization who know their business well and have a lot of professional knowledge due to the changes in the content and characteristics of its social, economic and spiritual development and the increase in the demand for the quality of work.
METHOD OF CREATING TEST TASKS FOR EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF STUDY ACHIEVEMENTS OF INFORMATICS STUDENTS
The article provides methods of creating various test tasks in order to evaluate the educational achievements of students in the subject of school informatics.
It is determined that the test is the most effective among the tasks that meet the requirements for monitoring and quality assessment of students' educational achievements.
The data on the results of the test tasks are used to monitor the knowledge and skills of students, determine the dynamics of the student's mastery of the most complex activities and the learning process and the effectiveness of innovative methods in the work of teachers, to diagnose the reasons for students' learning failures, connecting them with subject, socio-economic and other factors. .
It is determined that one of the most important tasks in teaching is monitoring and evaluating the level of education of students in subjects.
The methods of designing and creating activity-based level test tasks are used by school informatics teachers in the process of improving the effectiveness of teaching informatics in secondary schools of general education.
Key words: monitoring, dynamics, innovation, diagnosis, process, hierarchy, aspect, analogy.
In our country, external assessment of the educational achievements of students is part of the plan for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020. introduced in connection with the state program and changes in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education".
The main tasks of external evaluation of students' educational achievements include:
monitoring of students' educational achievements;
evaluation of the effectiveness of the organization of the educational process;
is to make a comparative analysis of the quality of educational services provided by educational organizations. [1]
The purpose of external assessment of educational achievements:
- assessment of the quality of educational services;
- to determine the level of mastery of educational programs of general education of students.
External evaluation of educational achievements:
- in primary school - selected for the purpose of monitoring educational achievements;
- in the primary school - selected for the purpose of monitoring educational achievements and evaluating the effectiveness of organizing the educational process;
- in general high school - selected for the purpose of evaluating the level of educational achievements.
Control of the student's knowledge, skills, and abilities is the main element of evaluating the quality of education.
The teacher can control the academic achievements of students through oral interviews, written evaluations, and tests.
M.M. In Dubtsova's researches, the organizational and pedagogical basis of the assessment of students' academic achievements is considered as a factor of increasing the quality of education.
The researcher formulated the process of assessment of educational achievements "as a pedagogical technology characterized by pedagogical systems and signs of structure, hierarchy, systematicity, dynamism, external and internal factors."
As a result of the research, the organizational and pedagogical conditions for evaluating the educational achievements of students, which allow to increase the quality of education, have been determined [2].
A test that satisfies the test's sufficiency, reliability, and accuracy properties is called a meaningful test.
One of the main characteristics of the test, in addition to reliability and accuracy, is the length of the test.
Test length means the number of tasks that make up the test.
There are two types of test: long test and short test.
If the test consists of 7-15 tasks, it is called a short test, and if it consists of more than 50 tasks, it is called a long test.
If the test is too long, its validity and student satisfaction will be impaired, which will reduce the accuracy and reliability of the test.
If the test takes an hour and a half, then as practice shows, students' motivation to answer the questions of the test decreases.
The accuracy of the test depends on the length of the test.
Famous Russian scientist V.S. Avanesov noted "The form of test tasks is a method of organizing and regulating the content of the test" [3].
Correctly selected test content can be used not only in control, but also in the educational process.
The use of test tasks in automated programs allows students to organize self-control, to return to the questions answered incorrectly according to the test results, to work with errors and eliminate them.
It can be noted that the test tasks play a huge role in connecting learning and monitoring activities.
One of the most important characteristics of test tasks is their reliability.
High reliability is necessary for a test, but it is not enough to obtain a high-quality test.
The test must be valid as well as reliable.
What is validity?
To finally understand the meaning of this concept, let's refer to the definitions provided by testologists (Figure 1).
3 types of validity can be distinguished.
They are: content, criteria and structure.
Structural (conceptual) validity is determined if the concept of the measured property is expressed in the form of an abstract image, model.
A conceptual model is created to explain certain properties. It is confirmed or denied with the help of a test.
Criterion (empirical) validity measures the presence of an external criterion.
There are 2 types of criterion validity.
- Current criterion validity describes the ability to measure some qualities of a person.
The validity of the test is confirmed by correlation (connection) with the external criteria found at that time.
For example, the test result showed that the subject's knowledge was excellent.
But the teacher's grades are unsatisfactory.
If we take school grades as an external, independent criterion, then the criterion validity of the test will be low.
- Predictive criterion validity describes the correlation of the test result with future external factors. The content validity test describes the level of relevance to the content of the subject.
According to Anna Anastasia, content validity refers to the systematic examination of test content.
The state mandatory standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan specifies the requirements for the level of training of students.
The level of training of students is evaluated in three aspects:
1) personal results;
2) system-operational results;
3) subject results.
Based on these three aspects, using Bloom's educational goals, it is possible to create a level model for creating activity-based test tasks in assessing the educational achievements of students in computer science (Figure 2).
Requirements for feedback information make it possible to determine which of the many tools and forms of monitoring students' educational achievements are used in monitoring during the teaching of computer science.
It is necessary to obtain information about the process of acquiring knowledge and skills through diagnostic tools and use the obtained information to predict the process further.
Feedback should provide management decision-making and be used to manage the learning process by complying with requirements such as fairness, promptness, adequacy, availability, truth, completeness.[4]
It is possible to assess the level of preparation of students according to subject results by using closed and open types of test tasks.
Let's give an example of the types of closed test tasks with one or more correct answers and alternative answers.
Example 1 Visual information - information received through natural scenes, images, taste, smell, sense organs.
EFFECTIVENESS OF USING STO TECHNOLOGY IN THE LESSON OF INFORMATICS
This article provides a comprehensive definition of the concept of critical thinking and shows students and teachers the benefits of developing critical thinking and examples of its use in computer science classes.
Critical thinking is the highest level of human cognition, the reflection of the environment in the human brain is based on 2 different psychophysiological principles:
constantly replenishing the scientific information base and the manifestation of new concepts and ideas.
The main goal of this technology is to develop not only learning, but also thinking abilities of students (making responsible decisions, working with information, comprehensive examination of information, etc.).
Critical thinking is a way of thinking in which a person is skeptical about received information or his own conclusions.
This is a technology that can be used in the direction of education in any subject.
Keywords: critical thinking, computer science, communicative competence, development of thinking, thinking process, teaching.
Currently, one of the main issues that teachers are paying attention to in the field of secondary education is the idea of developing students' ability to think critically.
Critical thinking plays an important role in the independent learning of students and the effectiveness of teacher and student work.
The idea of critical thinking dates back to the time of the ancient Greek philosophers. However, it is called differently at different times.
At one time, the human race, speaking of logic, the ability to think logically, meant the idea of thinking from a critical point of view, which is important nowadays.[1]
The importance of using the strategy of critical thinking in computer science. Today's teacher is the influencer, guide, and organizer of the student's independent learning, search and application of knowledge.
The main requirement of today is to acquire a certain amount of knowledge, skills, and widen their understanding of nature and the surrounding world, and develop them in a creative direction.
From the point of view of this requirement, it is very important to search for various methods and ways of organizing the educational process, to use new technologies effectively.
Teaching critical thinking isn't about testing, it's about sharpening your thinking.
If the student organizes this work correctly, his mind will be strengthened according to his level of development and he will achieve certain achievements.
In the process of working with this critical thinking module, the teacher leads the student to search for himself, teaches him to think. That is why it is very important to form the basics of critical thinking of students in computer science classes.
Students need to form the basis of critical thinking in order to be able to distinguish between the harm and the benefit to human life, in order to be able to distinguish between the benefits and harms of the modern day, the improvement of the information system, the widespread use of the Internet.
Critical thinking is not a criticism of any content, but a process of in-depth study, observation, and analysis of it.
Currently, the main goal of the teacher is not limited to providing a quality education to the student, but also to form him as a citizen ready for the future life, so it is possible to increase the child's quickness of thinking and versatility through critical thinking.
In order to develop students' critical thinking, different tasks should be used at each stage of the lesson.[2]
Using the method of critical thinking during the lesson, based on individual and group work of students, it is necessary to closely monitor their thorough learning.
The effectiveness of this method develops students' oral and written language, thinking, memory abilities, as well as their ability to think independently.
The efficiency of using STO technology in the computer science class is that students can fully participate in the class and express their thoughts clearly.
- Cognitive activity of an individual student increases.
- Pupils' interests are awakened.
- Being able to express one's thoughts openly by asking questions is not a STO-test, but a hardened thinking.
If the student uses this method correctly, his thinking will be strengthened according to his level of development, and he will definitely achieve certain achievements.
Since the subject of informatics has a lot of connection with life, it is very important for every student to be able to use the acquired knowledge for his own needs and to use the computer effectively where necessary. [4]
Critical thinking is a disciplinary decision aimed at thinking, evaluating, analyzing and synthesizing information obtained as a result of observation, experience, reflection and discussion. It can serve as a basis for future action.
Critical thinking often means challenging opinions, accepting alternative solutions, being willing to introduce new or modified ways of thinking and acting, engaging in organized social action, and engaging others in critical thinking.
Critical thinking process at the basic level:
- collecting relevant information;
- critical analysis and assessment of evidence;
- guaranteed decisions and summary conclusions;
- involves revising assumptions and recommendations based on extensive experience.
Today, education is not only a strategic direction of socio-economic, intellectual and spiritual development of society, but also a guarantee of the security of our society.
The new technology in education helps to find solutions to the most important pedagogical problems, to increase mental work, and provides effective management of the learning process.
The main feature of the use of new technologies in the educational process is that it gives teachers and students a lot of opportunities to do creative work independently and together, and its use for pedagogical purposes helps to increase the intellectual capabilities of students, influencing their intelligence, feelings, and attitudes.
The development of critical thinking in our society brings invaluable opportunities to the human race.
Especially for people who are not afraid to take responsibility and bring radical changes to the environment, a very valuable value. [3]
Basic critical thinking skills according to R. Ennis and R. Paul:
 assessment of reliability of information sources;
 separate and further process necessary information;
 analysis and assessment of opinions and assumptions, evidence and beliefs;
 being able to ask questions in order to obtain accurate information and verify it;
 being able to look at the problem from different points of view and compare them;
 the ability to accurately find language tools and express one's views,
 ability to make decisions and justify one's choice.
Since the critical thinking project involves group work, it can also be used to build communication skills.
While working in a group, children learn to communicate with each other.
Students know the rules of group work because they worked in groups in previous lessons. [5]
Pre-prepared assessment sheets are distributed to the groups.
The evaluation sheet indicates that each task will be evaluated.
The students elected their group leader, who had to evaluate the entire group members on these evaluation sheets.
In order to reveal the content of the lesson, two groups outside the textbook were given special questions to get used to critical thinking.
Pupils' actions stimulate thinking on the topic, work with a team, present their work to the second group in an effective way.
Students familiarized themselves with the content of the text. And within the group, he conducts a discussion by proposing answers to the questions in different versions by thinking critically.
The following results can be achieved among students on the basis of lessons on the development of critical thinking.
- listening to each other's opinion, respecting each other's opinion is the foundation of a harmonious relationship;
- to open the way to recognize oneself as an individual;
- to treat each other with respect;
- to express one's thoughts openly and freely, to exchange opinions;
- to evaluate oneself and each other;
- to talk freely with the teacher and exchange opinions;
- listening to the thoughts of friends, looking for ways to solve the problem, helping to solve the problem;
- active creative abilities are combined.
The peculiarity of the "critical thinking" technology is that the student thinks and tries to prove his thoughts from a critical point of view, expands the field of thought, as well as being able to openly express his thoughts through pair and group work, learns to express opinions, helps to organize and raise the level of education.
Using the strategies of "critical thinking" technology, the learning process can be conducted rationally and optimally.
The "Critical Thinking Through Reading and Writing" project consists of about 200 strategies.
They are: "grouping", "Prediction", "Venn diagram", "Two-sided diary", "I know, I want to know, I know" etc. strategies can be mentioned.
There are also teaching strategies to help students work through the topic.
Expected result of the "Critical Thinking" project.
1. Learn to work creatively, increasing students' enthusiasm for lessons.
2. Teaches to open a given topic in detail, to be able to listen to each other's opinions, to express one's thoughts openly.
Problem-based learning methods are often used in project learning technology.
Although the problem is derived from a specific topic, it is not identical to it.
The problem is different from the topic, that is, the problem is made of contradictions, requires further analysis and solution.
One of the methods used by the teacher after solving the problem is "brainstorming". The student is asked to think about the cause of the problem, the student tries to prove the correctness of his decision.
Expected result of design learning technology.
1. The quality of teaching of the subject should be directly influenced.
2. The student's ability to clearly and precisely demonstrate his knowledge and skill level is observed.
3. Degree of formation of various competences in the student.
Modular teaching technology - educational content, ability to work independently, effective use of teaching methods and approaches.
Expected result from modular learning technology.
1. Intensity, intensity of modular technology - achieving high results using less effort, less time, less tools.
2. Learning content of the study is offered in the form of individualized complexes that are realized in accordance with the set goal.
3. The teacher's relationship with the student changes.
That is, it is realized through modules, through personal relationship between manager and subordinate.
Teaching the subject is aimed at raising the level of information literacy of students, knowing and understanding the basics of IT skills, and developing algorithmic and logical thinking abilities.
In the teaching of informatics at the general secondary education level (10-11 grades), mastering the basic knowledge system and visual programming on the theoretical foundations of modern information technologies, forming the information culture of students, forming the ability to work with information and communication technology tools, accustoming students to the effective use of ICT, it is intended to develop cognitive and intellectual abilities.
An important feature of the subject of informatics is the regular work of students on the computer, so classes can be classified according to the size and nature of computer use: demonstration, laboratory work, practice.
Demonstration.
Using a demonstration screen, an interactive board, the teacher shows various educational elements of the course content (graphic, photo, video materials) in the form of a presentation.
The growth of the didactic possibilities and role of demonstration with the help of the computer is explained by various analyzes of technical means of visualization and educational computer programs (multimedia lectures, demonstration and information-reference programs).
The main didactic function of the demonstration is the formation of new concepts and methods of action.
Laboratory work.
All students work with software tools at their workplaces, didactic activity can be different:
learning new material (computer learning environment, simulation programs, expert systems for educational purposes, information-search systems), approval of new material (training programs, training programs), checking the acquisition of knowledge or operational skills (monitoring and testing programs, computer educational games) .
The teacher's role during laboratory work is to monitor the students' work (via local network), as well as to provide them with prompt assistance (advice).
Such classes are used for the purpose of improving knowledge, qualifications and skills, in their formation, generalization, systematization and appropriate application, as well as in the current control of the students' learning progress.
Practicum (or research practice).
Students receive individual tasks from the teacher for their own work (half of the tasks for the volume of one or more lessons to be completed outside of class, at home).
As a rule, practicums are used to finalize practical and academic skills and qualifications, as well as to check the degree of mastery of the theoretical materials of the entire chapter (topic) of the course [28].
For this purpose, various modeling programs are used, including interactive constructors that create a creative situation for the study of object properties, generating and computing programs, and educational expert systems.
USE OF THE DESIGN METHOD IN DEVELOPING STUDENTS' CREATIVITY AND COGNITIVE ACTIVITY IN THE SCHOOL INFORMATICS COURSE
This article considers the need to use the design method during the development of creative and cognitive activity of students in the school computer science course.
The works of scientists who studied the design method and design technologies were taken as a basis.
The methods of design activity in the development of creative and cognitive activity of students were proposed.
An explanation of the design method was given, and the purpose of its use in the teaching process was proposed.
Enhancing students' motivation to implement a project and obtain its results is directly related to the methodology of using the project method, that is, principles such as "creativity", "systematicity", "teamwork" come to the fore. The method of projects focuses on teaching and educating on the basis of creativity.
The use of the design method in computer science is relevant not only for the student, but also requires great preparation from the teacher.
In addition, the requirements for performing design work are clarified and the types of design methods are mentioned.
Keywords: project, design method, creativity, cognitive activity.
The history of the design method dates back to the second half of the 19th century.
American scientists who invented this method J. Dewey, H. Kilpatrick associates it with the fact that it "enables to consider the problem in its development", that is, learners repeatedly look at the theory in action to solve a real problem, as a result of which they can evaluate how their work is done, the work done with their own hands brings them satisfaction and self-confidence.
Scientists have attached great importance to these advantages of this method.
According to V. Kilpatrick, learning activities in the design method should be performed without the participation of the teacher.
Then the student will be able to see the results of his actions and evaluate his abilities.
J. Dewey insisted that the student's actions should be a joint action with the teacher.
After all, the student may not have enough knowledge to complete the activity, so the teacher should ensure that the student goes through all the stages of thinking before performing the activity. Our President N.A. Nazarbayev in his message:
"The competitiveness of the nation is determined first of all by the level of education" is equivalent to the concept of increasing the value of an individual, increasing the responsibility of the teacher who prepares him, tireless work, and quality results.
The future of our independent country is in the hands of the educated generation.
The main goal of educating the next generation is to develop the ability and interest of the young generation to master professional activity, to develop their creativity and cognitive activity, to create conditions and give them the opportunity to become the owner of a certain profession.
And, in turn, that knowledge is a means of self-awareness of each person, becoming a specialist, being able to express oneself, that is, discovering one's inner potential and personal abilities.
Looking at the domestic experience, it can be said that the most significant step in the direction of real education for students is the active introduction of new technologies that are suitable for the capabilities of the new system, which opens the way for them to search for themselves and apply the knowledge they have acquired in real practice.
In today's information society, it is known that the informatics course is of great importance in arming students with the basics of information knowledge, developing their logical-structural thinking abilities, as a means of self-development of information technology and its implementation.
Teaching students to implement project work in the school computer science course ensures that they will be ready for higher education in the future, globally competitive and comprehensively prepared in designing activities [1].
This will undoubtedly lead to the advanced development of the computer science course and information society in the country.
Therefore, implementing the method of designing students in computer science courses according to modern requirements and including it in the educational content of project works is becoming one of the fundamental problems of the field of pedagogy.
In order to be competitive in the labor market, every school student must be truly prepared to learn new techniques, learn new technologies, and get additional education throughout his life.
Therefore, they should have a high level of ability to solve problems facing the goal of implementation of design activities, to create information models, to establish a communication order, to find information necessary for the implementation of all activities.
The analysis of the literature showed that the computer science course is in the formative stage of the methodology of independent creation of project works based on cognitive features.
In the educational process, the efficiency of students' implementation of project work and the quality of the results achieved by the student during this work directly depend on the nature and content of their education, organization and direct relationship to project work, and the quality of the proposed education.
To design is the Latin word "proicere".
This word has the same meaning as "planning, preparation" or the implementation of a plan.
Sh. D. Abdieva says: "design method - learning or other activities based on solving a certain problem and drawing conclusions by the student and the teacher together" - says [2], scientist A. A. Satbekova:
concluded that "teaching through the design method is an effective way to introduce students' reproductive learning activities into the internal value system of students, gradually raising them to imitative activities" [3].
The design method requires students to solve a problem.
And to solve the problem, on the one hand, they should use different methods, on the other hand, they should use the combination of knowledge obtained from different disciplines.
The main goal of the design method is to increase the individual's creative search and cognitive activity.
The design method depends on the student's interest, personal characteristics, requirements and goals.
The design method can be divided into one lesson or several lessons depending on the size.
If all the children in the group are organized regardless of their educational level, it will open up a great way for them to work interestingly.
That is, the main goal of using the design method is to develop students' curiosity, to improve their knowledge by doing their own work, to form informational orientation skills, and to adapt students to be able to express themselves in different situations and in different social environments in the future by increasing their creativity and cognitive abilities.
The design method is a method of individually oriented teaching.
It develops skills and abilities through the content part of the study and the set of tasks.
It is the reason to prevent children's research activity through a set of tasks in the content part of teaching.
The project is built on a specific topic.
It can be chosen according to the student's interest.
In computer science, a project is the concept of an independent final study of a problem with the presentation of the results of work - this is, of course, a computer program.
Project activity is one of the ways to achieve the specified goal. The rules for mastering the subject of computer science through the design method are as follows:
the topic (project) should be relevant to the curriculum and it should arouse the interest of the student;
the role of the teacher changes, he should only be an organizer and consultant;
In the process of project learning, search activity, research activity, analysis and accumulation activity are organized.
At the same time, the researcher presents a project of his personal work and makes a plan to prove it as a result, drawings, paintings, diagrams are used;
the topic proposed for discussion should be broad and open;
protection of the project should be carried out in a pair (dyad), three (triad) and group framework.
The creation of such a working group allows to create the creative activity of the student's personality and allow group members to work in mutual cooperation.
Requirements for design work are as follows:
- Choosing the classification of the training project;
- Preparation of project presentation;
- Determination of project evaluation criteria;
- Evaluation of the result of the created project;
- Determining the goals and tasks of teachers in teaching the design method.
General design is grouped according to certain properties and meets the conditions and requirements for them, in particular, the following projects can be offered:
1. Demonstration design;
2. Research design;
3. Creative design;
4. Role-playing game design;
5. Information design;
6. Teaching design;
7. Monodesign;
8. Interdisciplinary design;
9. Experienced and oriented design;
10. Short-term design;
11. Game design [4].
The design method is a competence-oriented educational technology. The application of the design method can be different depending on the research problem of the project:
- projects for the entire academic year, starting with one lesson projects;
- projects ranging from individual topic teaching or research projects to interdisciplinary, non-disciplinary projects;
- telecommunications projects in one direction.
Depending on the nature of communication between participants:
- in-class;
- intra-school;
- interregional;
- there will be international projects.
Depending on the number of project participants:
- individually
- will be group.
Depending on the duration:
- small projects (performed in 1 lesson);
- short term (3-4 lessons);
- medium term;
- long term.
During the preparation of the project, students learn to choose a topic, set goals and objectives, search and organize materials on the topic, make a conclusion, slide presentation.
Learning skills of the student are formed while doing scientific work:
planning one's work; predicting the outcome;
use of different literature;
selection of materials, comparison and analysis of found data;
proof of concept; self-decision making;
communicating with people.
If the student is able to plan, correctly choose the topic of the project, and execute it correctly, he will become a person who is well adapted to the future.
He can make the right decisions in different situations, communicate with different people, and give the right direction in different environments.
So, the effectiveness of the project is to see, hear and remember, leading the student to search, business and cognitive enthusiasm, ability to solve various problems by improving creativity, ingenuity, new scientific research.
The basis of the design method is: development of students' cognitive and creative skills, the ability to independently compile their own knowledge, the ability to find directions in the information space, and the development of critical thinking through the implementation of the principles of service learning.
The principles of designing new learning technologies can be broadly described as follows:
- the position of unity - teaching technology is a system of teaching goals, tools, methods, types of conditions in an integrated way, functioning and development of a specific didactic system;
- breeding position
- the achievement of the goal of education in the case of increased distribution of teaching technology, designed taking into account the characteristics of the pedagogical environment.
One of the main characteristics of design-based instructional technology is that integrity and consistency should be evident, and those characteristics should always be maintained.
Those holistic and systematic properties are the components that make up the teaching technology through the design method.
If we highlight them: determining the purpose of teaching to students through the method of design, mastering the knowledge given by the teacher, two-sided, mutual humanistic ideas related to mastering by the student, "subject-subject" relationship problems.
Also, organizing the course of teaching to students using the design method, problems related to the teacher and student who teach computer science using the design method, determining and analyzing the results of teaching and introducing computer science to students using the design method.
Project work has been used a lot recently, computer-aided implementation has given a new impetus to this work.
Project work makes the student feel like a researcher, and when using computer help, their interest increases.
In the computer science class, the design method allows to implement learning of problems that activate and deepen knowledge, to think and act independently, and to teach group activity.
Students try to implement their projects with great creativity and interest.
Working with projects has a special place in the education system, giving students the opportunity to gain knowledge that cannot be achieved through traditional learning methods.
This can happen because students make their own choices and are demanding.
Due to the organization of the design activity, the student is given the opportunity to learn according to his abilities;
help to discover students' abilities in solving a wide range of tasks;
conditions should be created to regulate interactions between students.
In conclusion, the design method is an innovative technology that significantly increases the level of computer literacy of students, the level of independence, endurance, as well as the level of general intellectual development.
It is very important to use the design method in educating the young generation as a conscious, independent researcher.
USE OF COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES IN PERFORMING GRAPHIC COMPOSITIONS
The current level of development of computer technologies, showing the communication possibilities and advantages of the universe, is a unique prerequisite for providing quality education.
Mass computerization, the wide use of new information technologies in education, scientific research, business, production and social life, raised the development to a new level.
Today, due to the rapid development of technology, the graphic capabilities of the computer are increasing day by day.
The history of computer graphics in general is an integral part of the history of personal computers (PCs).
In the past, computer graphics on large computing machines were only of a utilitarian nature, that is, its main tasks were:
services such as drawing simple graphics with green lines on a black background or displaying projected printing plates.
Computer graphics developed along with software.
At first, there was only a simple image created in a range of sixteen colors.
In addition to the improvement of video adapters and monitors, the quality of images also began to increase.
As the software develops, the image quality increases and the size of the graphic file decreases.
Keywords: graphics, graphic composition, computer literacy, three-dimensional graphics, animation, computer technology.
The term graphic composition has a deep meaning.
Graphics is a type of fine art, the main elements of which are points, strokes, lines; the contrast of black and white, because the most important thing in graphics is the depicted object, and it is usually drawn with the help of black.
With the help of graphics, you can draw fantastic abstract paintings or other realistic images.
Graphics play a very important role in design, for example, in creating logos and decorating websites.
Composition is a clear and understandable presentation of a person's main idea as a finished work.
The main areas of training students in computer graphics, the level of their use in the process of teaching graphic subjects in the process of computer training are of interest.
Only an experienced teacher can effectively organize the process of teaching students graphic compositions.
In the course of teaching graphic compositions, it is worth focusing on some features of visual presentation of information.
On the one hand, as the results of separate experimental studies show, it is more effective to literally represent the original data compared to the visual representation of the object during the execution of the drawing on the given topic.
When you follow the description of the picture, it will be as informative and accurate as possible.
Therefore, in order to develop visual thinking during creative education, the information presented in a visual form should be varied.
Five levels of using computer tools during the educational process can be tentatively noted.
1. Learning the basics of computer literacy. Based on it, knowledge of new information technologies, basic concepts of structures, principles of operation of computer equipment, mutual relations and principles of operation of auxiliary software is formed.
2. Preparation for general subjects with the help of a computer.
Computer technologies are used as a supplement to the curriculum required for various subjects and as a teaching tool.
Educational programs, demos, Internet, interactive video, databases along with didactic materials, textbooks, methodical textbooks are used in this process.
When teaching the subjects of drawing geometry, engineering graphics, graphic composition, along with traditional teaching tools, teaching and monitoring computer programs are used.
New computer technologies are needed to make any necessary information available.
3. Computer technologies are used as a means of forming special graphic knowledge and skills in the field of computer graphics, realizing interdisciplinary connections, creating graphic works.
For example, during the teaching of graphic composition, in the learning process, which requires new graphic skills specific to computer graphics, automated drawing works at a certain level will be of great importance.
4. Using computer training tools as a means of developing students' creative abilities.
On the one hand, in the learning process of the organization controlled by the teacher, presented in a fixed order, the information is measured, on the other hand, the students not only learn and re-read the learning material, but also are justified to solve the project assignments.
In addition, the educational and creative activity is close to the situation of real professional activity.
It should be noted that at this level of application of computer technologies in graphics services, special attention is paid to the ability of students to solve tasks using computer graphics tools, rather than to general computer training.
5. Use of computer technologies is a tool for students to express themselves creatively and professionally.
As new information and computer technologies make information available, they affect the formation of creative personality of students, open new opportunities for development, realization and expression of their abilities for creative activity.
Since the use of computer technology in the process of performing graphic compositions helps students to realize their creative abilities in a new way during the learning process, computer graphics are often considered as a new form of art.
It is necessary to determine what special knowledge and professional abilities of a teacher, artist, designer, architect develop in various fields during the practical implementation of the technology of teaching students to computer graphics.
An interesting, but the most difficult area of study in computer graphics is three-dimensional graphics and animation.
Three-dimensional graphics and animation are widely used for the development of industrial or architectural design projects, for advertising during the creation of television commercials, and for decorating computer programs.
It also blends beautifully with video editing when creating television commercials.
It requires a special level of development of spatial thinking, because all objects and characters are created and placed in a virtual space, natural environment or interior, and their animations, including special effects, actively move in space and artificial environment.
Three-dimensional graphics requires the formation of the ability to create designs and various forms with the help of various software tools and is based on a theoretical knowledge system in the field of orthogonal design. A high level of photorealism of the simulation result can be achieved only when the textures and materials are carefully selected and the camera and light sources are correctly positioned on the scene.
During the creation of animations, the student becomes both a director and a cameraman. Because it considers the composition, content and plot of each frame and separates the movement of stage objects not only in space, but also in time.
To master the functions of three-dimensional graphics and animation programs, it is necessary to study a lot and devote a lot of time to it for the student to work independently.
The features of additional programs allow to connect theory and practice, to automate mechanical work, to help the learner with special tools to highlight the result of creative research.
Therefore, the use of computer technologies as a means of performing graphic compositions requires the correct selection of software that meets the purpose of education.
And the use of information technologies on a scientific basis allows to form the professional level of the future bachelor and further improve it.
EFFECTIVE WAYS OF THE DISTANCE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Currently, the form of distance learning is called the educational system of the 21st century.
Special attention is paid to it on this day.
The fact that the results of social progress, which used to be focused on technologies, are now being concentrated in the information sector, which has increased the importance of distance learning.
Its current stage of development can be described as telecommunication.
This is the area of communication of information and knowledge.
Since professional knowledge quickly becomes obsolete, it should be constantly improved.
Today, the form of distance learning forms and implements a system of continuous general education, mutual information exchange, independent of time and space zones.
In addition, the distance education system ensures the right of a person to receive education and information, regardless of his social status (pupil, student, citizen and military, unemployed...) and regardless of whether he lives in any region of our country or abroad.
Only this system is as effective and flexible as possible in ensuring the right of citizens to education and meeting the needs of the society.
Keywords: form of distance education, computer technology, electronic textbook.
Based on the above-mentioned factors, distance education is the most effective system of the 21st century in training specialists and maintaining their high qualification level.
Comparing various statistics, distance learning is a new, specialized form of learning that has many advantages and differences over traditional full-time or part-time learning. It offers a different form of student-teacher, student interaction, a different educational tool and methodology, a different type of organization of education.
In addition, its composition consists of components that exist in any form of education, in any education system; in all forms of education, from goals that meet social needs; from the content of existing programs depending on the type of educational institution; consists of methods, organizational form, educational tools.
Correspondence and distance learning should not be confused. Their main difference is that distance learning provides systematic and effective interactive learning. Distance learning should be considered as a new form of education. Distance learning is based on the same content and objectives as in full-time learning.
However, the type of material delivery and the relationship between the teacher and the student will be different. The didactic principles of distance learning (scientific, systematic and regularity, principles of activity, developmental learning, visualization, principles of differential learning and individual learning, etc.) are the same as in full-time learning.
However, due to the possibilities of the information environment of the Internet and its services, the implementation of distance education will be unique.
Thus, on the one hand, distance education should be considered among general education (in the continuing education system), taking into account the peculiarities of some of its aspects.
On the other hand, distance education should be distinguished as a system and a process.
Distance learning, like other forms of education, offers the stages of pedagogical design, its content and pedagogical composition (methodology in the plan of pedagogical technology, forms of teaching) theoretically meaningful.
It follows that the tasks of the pedagogical design stage are:
creation of e-courses, e-textbooks, sets of educational tools, pedagogical technology for organizing the online learning process.
A distance learning course requires careful and accurate planning and organization of the student's activities, a clear setting of the learning goal and task, delivery of the necessary learning materials that ensure interactivity between the student and the teacher, feedback between the student and the learning material, and creates conditions for group learning.
The presence of effective feedback allows to receive information about the correctness of the student's movement from ignorance to education.
Motivation is also an important part of any distance learning course.
It is important to use different methods and tools to promote it.
Additional components (invariants) should also be considered when organizing distance learning courses.
The authors of the scientific work highlight the following goals of distance learning:
1. Professional training and retraining of personnel;
2. Raising the qualification of pedagogical personnel in a certain specialty;
3. Preparation of students from some individual subjects for external exams;
4. Preparing a student for admission to higher education according to a certain profile;
5. Elimination of deficiencies in the student's knowledge, skills, and abilities in some individual subjects;
7. Teaching the basic course of the institution to the student who cannot come to the educational institution at all or for a certain period of time for various reasons;
8. Get additional education according to interest. Based on the analysis, the most common types of distance learning are based on:
1. Interactive television;
2. Computer telecommunication network (regional, global), depending on the various didactic possibilities of the current configuration (text files, multimedia technology, video conference, teleopinion, online lesson...); 3. Internet network and CD drive technology.
The advantage of teaching through interactive television is the possibility of direct visual contact with the audience at different distances from the teacher.
Its disadvantage is that when it is taught in this way, regardless of whether it is a regular lesson or modern pedagogical technology is used, the circulation of the lesson continues to increase.
This interactive television is very useful when teachers and students learn new knowledge, methods they need, new information technology, are witnesses or participants, take part in a discussion, see an excellent methodology or laboratory work.
This form of distance learning is interactive and has a great future in the training and qualification of specialists.
But at the moment it is a very expensive technology.
The next method of organizing distance education suggests the use of computer telecommunications in the form of e-mail, teleconference, information resources of the regional Internet network.
This is a popular and inexpensive form of distance learning. It is planned to use new means of telecommunication technology in its organization.
In the third approach, it is recommended to use CDs as a basic e-textbook.
It has great didactic possibilities for education and raising the knowledge of specialists at the university.
The advantages of compact discs are;
- interactivity;
- multimedia;
- contains a large amount of information and significantly optimizes distance learning due to this.
According to researchers, the indisputable advantages of distance learning are:
1. Despite the low cost of educational services, professional training is much higher than evening or part-time education;
2. Shortening the study period;
3. Possibility of simultaneous studies in Kazakhstan and foreign universities;
Independence of the student from the geographical location of the university.
Experiences have shown that the quality and structure of training courses are the same in distance learning and traditional learning, or in some cases, the quality of distance learning is higher.
Compared to traditional learning environments, new electronic technology not only actively participates in the traditional learning process, but also allows to control this process.
Modern computer-based telecommunications provide education and educational information that is just as effective as traditional educational tools, and sometimes even more so.
Speaking about the form of distance learning, it includes; as many electronic sources of information as possible (including online): virtual libraries, databases, consulting services, e-learning tools, cyber-classes, etc. it is necessary to talk about the creation of a unified information and knowledge space.
When it comes to distance learning, it should be understood that the system has a teacher, a student and a textbook. This is the mutual influence of the student and the teacher.
It follows from this that the most important thing in the organization of distance education is electronic courses, didactic structure of distance education, training of pedagogues-coordinators.
Distance learning does not need to be compared to part-time study, because here there is constant communication with the teacher and other students in the cyber classroom, all aspects of full-time study are covered, taking into account the special form of study.
It follows that theoretical analysis, experimental verification, and responsible scientific research are required.
Unfortunately, the ones we see on the Internet, e-textbooks on CD-ROMs, cannot meet pedagogical requirements.
From this, it is important to solve the problems associated with the creation of a distance learning course and its use in various basic, advanced and additional educational purposes.
The above-mentioned facts and examples indicate the need to create a distance education system in Kazakhstan and expand it in the regions. This will greatly help to create a society with high qualification, strong intellectual quality, developed professional level, resistant to competition at the international level.
INFRASTRUCTURE OF ELECTRONIC COMMERCE SYSTEM
In recent times, due to the rapid development of scientific and technical progress, new concepts and categories related to information systems and technologies have entered the daily life of people with the spread of various Internet resources, the introduction of new trade operations.
The most important of these concepts are the following concepts: "electronic commerce" and "electronic trade".
This article deals with the main elements of the e-commerce system and the functioning of their current services.
Keywords: electronic commerce, electronic trade, network economy, Internet stores, electronic stores, information systems and technologies, business process, infrastructure. The main elements of the electronic commerce system can be divided into two large and self-sufficient groups.
The first group of elements makes up all the components of the e-commerce system infrastructure, and the second group consists of various types of organizations that implement it.
The main elements of the first group include the group that forms the basis of the infrastructure of the e-commerce system.
These items will be significantly different from items found in traditional stores.
The difference can be seen both in the composition of the elements and in its content.
E-commerce system is significantly different from traditional (usual) trading, because the business environment in which trading is done is always changing.
The use of e-commerce is determined by the need for additional research that does not apply to components in a traditional environment.
The number of publications defining various problems of the electronic commerce system's operation and organization is quite large [1-5].
Current literature on various issues of e-commerce system design cannot define the elements of its infrastructure sufficiently comprehensively and comprehensively.
This situation makes it very difficult for domestic merchants to organize their own businesses based on the use of the Internet.
We present enough complete infrastructure elements to fill the mentioned gap, and it is presented in an interconnected and systematic way [6].
The main elements of the infrastructure of the electronic commerce system are [1, 2, 6]: 1) special software;
2) database and application management system;
3) telecommunications and communications;
4) a system that ensures the security of the act of sale and purchase of goods and services;
5) legal, legal provision;
6) virtual banking system;
7) special payment systems;
8) automated warehousing;
9) product delivery and service system;
10) financial institutions (brokerage and other offices);
11) system of taxation and customs tariffs;
12) marketing service includes: banner advertising, sales department, web page design department, web servers, pricing department.
Let's give a brief overview of the most important components of the e-commerce system infrastructure.
Electronic store.
Based on the creation of a Web server, it is considered a trading representation of a merchant on the Internet.
The main purpose of creating such an institution is to ensure the sale of goods and services to other Internet users.
Potential buyers visit the server and get full information about the product that interests them with the help of hypertext links and using many multimedia features.
The buyer can place an order only if the goods satisfy the characteristics required by all customers.
There are various options for purchasing in the electronic store.
In some cases, it makes sense to combine transaction and delivery using the Internet: product selection, direct order, sometimes payment. But direct delivery of goods is carried out in a traditional way (goods are cars, computers, household appliances, etc.).
In other cases, consider the possibility of delivery using the Network.
Special software.
It includes: (Java, HTML, XML and others) programming languages; templates for input and output data; multilingual support of texts;
web page preparation method and design; special software and others.
HTML (HyperText Markup Language) is a set of standard codes used to create web documents; the user determines the browser installed on the computer to display some text, graphics and other multimedia elements using HTML [7, 8].
A software complex for managing an electronic store or a trading part of a system is software that allows you to create and maintain a trading system that works online.
A web content management system is software that allows you to create and maintain dynamic, informative websites.
A system that ensures the security of sales and purchase acts.
One of the most important conditions for the effective use of an electronic commerce system is to ensure that payments are made using an efficient, inexpensive and, most importantly, secure means.
A sufficient number of methods of protection of communications on the Internet are known.
The most popular is public key cryptography.
It is not yet known what level of architecture is suitable for implementing effective information protection tools.
It should be noted that one of the options for protecting information from unauthorized access cannot be unconditionally preferred.
Choosing the best payment protection tool in a specific situation should be left to the experts.
Legal protection. Electronic commerce and trade should be organized, firstly, based on the application of rules with traditional legal norms, and secondly, new special legal institutions and procedures are considered [6, 9, 10].
In addition, unification of legislation is relevant, as well as simplification of rules and procedures used in different countries.
These relevant government structures and businesses show close cooperation not only within the same country, but also at the global level.
A particularly important principle here is to show that the parties who signed the contract (for example, sale and purchase) should not question it, despite the fact that it was signed electronically.
Implementation of this principle is sometimes not possible. In individual cases, the state of such an agreement does not have any legal force in the case of a court case.
In this case, a traditional written contract is required, approved by the signatures of the parties and with all clear conditions fixed on paper.
In 1996, the Commission on International Trade and Law developed a set of model laws and regulations "on electronic commerce" in order to overcome this obstacle and ensure the normal functioning of electronic commerce.
An agreement approved with the help of computer is a model that can be used to solve the main problems of national legislation in different countries regarding the legal meaning, as well as the recognition of an electronically expressed agreement as a legal document. If both parties choose to transfer data by electronic means, then the national law proposes Standard Legal Procedures to regulate these situations, and the state creates conditions for creating a legal environment in the neutral situation of different carriers of information.
Among the main rules related to the regulation of electronic signature is the creation of a state that requires its own solution.
In addition, work on digital signatures is not limited to the sphere of commercial law and includes general issues of administrative and civil law.
Some legislative acts of Kazakhstan contain decrees on the use of traditional handwritten paper documents.
The legal obstacle to the implementation of the e-commerce system in the Republic of Kazakhstan is normal at the international level and integrates its global electronic market.
In this regard, domestic legislation needs to be improved and a number of new laws should be created.
The Electronic Digital Signature Law takes precedence over other laws.
Trust in an electronic signature is an important condition for the transfer of a real right and the confirmation of a contract with the help of an electronic signature.
Special payment systems.
Currently, various card technologies can be used to make payments over the Internet.
For this purpose, the payer indicates his payment card number, and the recipient of the electronic payment sends a payment request to the payer's card account.
But the technology is relatively fragile.
Because the Internet is not protected.
Therefore, there is a possibility that an attacker can reveal the payment card number.
The latter uses this number to steal funds from the card account.
In turn, there is a possibility of fraud even if the payer cannot control the amount deposited in the account.
Therefore, due to its weak protection, the card technology cannot meet all the necessary requirements.
In addition, the recipient of the payment to the payer's card account is also allowed.
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, this unfavorable technology has not spread significantly.
Currently, to overcome these shortcomings, special electronic money is created and they can make payments anonymously over the Internet.
Currently, several different payment systems are known.
They can be divided into four main groups [1, 6, 11]:
1. Communications session protocols that ensure secure data transfer.
2. Systems based on the use of a plastic card.
3. Payment systems aimed at using a smart card.
4. Electronic funds.
Payment systems used in the Republic of Kazakhstan can be divided into three groups:
1. Payment systems using a credit card.
2. Electronic cash systems (WebMoney, etc.).
3. Internet banking systems.
Product and service delivery system.
This means that it is necessary to deliver the goods ordered by the buyer in a short period of time.
Otherwise, e-commerce related services may not be effective.
Delivery of goods and services purchased in electronic stores is carried out in two main ways.
First of all, it is carried out using traditional transport and postal means.
Secondly, it is implemented by direct use of electronic channels.
In this case, the delivery of the necessary digital and other whiteware (for example, software products, electronic editions of magazines, newspapers, musical works, etc.) is indicated.
Marketing activity.
The main part of solving the main problem of marketing is the sales department, pricing, advertising and the design of the property web pages.
Marketing activities on the Internet are divided into two main types depending on the degree of participation in the environment [6, 11]:
1. The service is carried out as a simple user of the Internet.
This method is characterized by certain limitations of using the communication capabilities of this environment individually.
2. Accepting direct and active participation in realizing the potential of the Internet.
In the minimum feature version, this can be a web page or a private web server, while in the maximum feature version, the features are unlimited.
The most common typical situation can be the implementation of sales of a company representative on the Internet or the creation of an interactive store.
It is known that the Internet is effectively used to conduct various types of electronic market marketing research.
The Internet provides an opportunity to conduct primary marketing research based on direct primary data obtained as part of marketing research conducted by online firms, and the Internet provides an opportunity to conduct secondary marketing research based on information published on the Internet.
The Internet can be used to study commodity markets, to study its structure, or to study a group of real and potential buyers [1, 6, 10].
The main element of advertising on the Internet is the company's web server.
It is based on a whole range of advertising activities.
The main problem of the web server owner is to promote it.
Banners are a widely used element of Internet advertising. Banner advertising is one of the most effective and popular ways to attract customers to a web page or web server.
It is also a powerful tool for image advertising.
Banners are rectangular views in GIF or JPG format.
It is also found in banners created using JAVA, ShockWare and other technologies. The banner is usually on the publisher's web page and has a hyperlink to the advertiser's server. The main methods of advertising the company's services in the Internet environment [3, 6, 11]:
 providing a well-executed, attractive web page design;
 server registration with search engines;  placement of free links to the server in web directories;
 placing links to "yellow pages";  posting links to other servers;
 placement of paid advertising on the most frequently accessed servers;
 publishing materials on other servers with a link to the company server;
 periodic sending of the message about the server to the interested client by e-mail;
 participation in a teleconference on a mixed topic;
 using the name of the server in all types of advertising of the company's products, as well as using it in the form of traditional advertising.
Web-pages, web-servers design department. The work of employees of this department does not only design web pages.
The criteria for evaluating the quality of the latter are quite different (appearance, ease of navigation, attention to the buyer, ease of return, service support, all information about the product, product price, product assortment, and others).
For an interactive buyer, when choosing an e-store, the assortment of goods, its availability in the warehouse and the speed of delivery are of decisive importance.
Similarly, it is necessary to clarify the composition of the main components of the infrastructure of the electronic commerce system and clarify the difficult problems that must be solved at the initial stage of economic justification and design, to minimize the time and labor costs spent on the effective and convenient operation of the virtual store on the Internet.
The infrastructure of the electronic commerce system may be sufficient for efficient operation of the close interaction of all its subjects.
As the main subjects of the electronic commerce system: clients; financial institutions (seller's bank, buyer's bank, etc.);
business organizations (manufacturers, sellers, distributors, dealers or resellers); government. Their interaction is facilitated by financial operators, processing and pre-processing companies, virtual (digital) money and payment systems, etc. is carried out with the help of Clients.
Buyers or consumers (natural and legal entities) of this service.
Financial institutions. Any organizations that interact using the Internet.
In its own sense, this is organizations that carry out commercial (or trading) operations.
Here they implement the wide spread of interaction between their participants:
the product manufacturer tries to sell through its own or other suppliers or through distributors.
The latter may work through dealers or resellers.
Government e-commerce.
The government is the guarantor of operations in the e-commerce system by creating an appropriate legal framework.
The second group element of the electronic commerce system, which describes the diversity of the possibility of using organizational types, includes:
 Electronic store;
 electronic department store;
 electronic kiosk;
 electronic auction;
 electronic shop-window;
 electronic computing store;
 electronic market of the third country;
 virtual community (community);
consulting firm;
 brokerage and information office or private broker;
 provider of research services.
Electronic store.
A unique trade showcase that provides a web server, community interface for the product or service offered for sale.
The main criterion for the effective and successful operation of such a store is the exact volume of the demand for goods and services.
Electronic department store.
Here is an analogue of a typical department store, where different companies offer their goods.
The main criterion for evaluating its effectiveness is the marketable brand (image) (Technodom, Sulpak, etc.).
Electronic kiosk (or interactive kiosks). Other goods and services and Internet-connected hardware and software packages that provide users with interactive access to information. A typical kiosk consists of a computer with a hard disk, a keyboard, a CD-ROM drive, and a monitor with a video and audio card.
Users can enter information in different ways:
 from the keyboard,
 from the microphone,
 through a video camera,
 through a device for reading information from a magnetic card.
A combination of these tools is also possible. The electronic kiosk allows full-fledged work on the Internet:
to use search engines, directories and databases, simply calling the desired URL, receiving and sending e-mail, filling out on-screen forms.
Electronic auction. An analogue of the classic auction, but based on the use of modern Internet technologies.
Any e-auction, especially e-commerce, belongs to the "customer to customer" model.
At the same time, the auction can be presented in the form of a "business-business" model.
An example of the implementation of this model is possible energy electronic auctions and trade exchanges. They are largely characteristic of the USA and Western Europe. Around the auction, usually some community of people united by the same interests is formed (for example, on certain books, on specific goods). The average value of a transaction at Western Auction is $35-80.
An electronic auction Molotok.ru ("Molotok.Ru") operates in the Russian-speaking part of the Internet, where you can buy and sell any item. A feature of the process specific to the electronic auction assumes the need to provide continuity to the Internet access channel, multimedia interface. In this case, it is important to show the product on its face.
An auction is a competition, where the seller wants to get the maximum price for his goods, and the buyer hopes to buy the goods at the minimum price. They are divided into two large classes depending on the decrease or increase of the bet.
The bet can increase from the minimum to the maximum (rational) or decrease from the initial maximum amount to the minimum amount.
Auctions include: Computers, New-to-Market Hi-Tech Goods, Discounted Goods, Obsolete Goods, Retired Leaders, Collectibles.
One of the important reasons for the emergence of the electronic auction is to provide an opportunity to determine the exact market price for the goods.
A number of factors distinguish traditional auctions from electronic auctions:
a large number of buyers, a large number of goods, interactive communication between buyers and sellers, various auction models, round-the-clock work, lack of territorial boundaries, full description and image of the goods, customer service.
Electronic storefront.
Specialized software for maintaining and creating web server pages containing product and service offers.
Electronic computing store.
Specialized software for integration of an electronic storefront with a well-known payment system.
Electronic market of third countries.
The companies behind it build software for the design of e-shops, after-sales support, hosting (that is, placing the user's web pages on some server connected to the Internet; usually this procedure is carried out by intermediaries, who provide space for the site and establish a connection with a payment gateway).
Virtual community.
Association of specialized electronic stores (Geosities, Amazon, Ozone).
The main criterion of efficiency is the unification of buyers by groups of homogeneous interests.
As a result, it reduces the cost of advertising.
The basis of such a community is a ready-made society: fan clubs, associations, etc. Consulting firm.
A specialized firm offering a range of consulting services in the field of management and design of electronic stores, in the field of marketing research necessary for the market, or recruiting offices dealing with personnel selection issues.
Broker information office or private broker.
Their task is to provide potential buyers with the necessary amount of information about the market.
Provision of research services. Specialized organizations that perform various researches on the Internet and e-commerce systems.
USING GRAPHIC CAPABILITIES OF MAPLE SYSTEM IN SOLVING DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS
Although the Maple system includes typical procedural programming tools, the system as a language is focused on solving mathematical problems.
Therefore, the Maple system belongs to the class of high-level problem-oriented programming.
Especially the use of Maple system is considered to be very effective in teaching mathematics and physics subjects.
The advanced features of symbolic mathematics are perfectly combined with mathematical numerical modeling and graphical visual representations of calculations.
Differential equations form the basis of mathematical modeling of various systems and equipment.
Therefore, in this article, the use of graphical features of the Maple system in solving differential equations is considered.
The system of differential equations was considered as an example of finding a solution to the Lotka-Volterra model.
In addition, the article briefly explained the working principles of the graphic functions of the Maple system.
Keywords:
Maple system, mathematical numerical modeling, graphical visual representations of calculations, solving differential equations.
Maple-type software system.
The following features distinguish it from other programming languages:
• Powerful programming language;
• To be an excellent editor for preparation and editing of documents and programs;
• Multi-window consumer interface that allows working in a modern dialog mode;
• Contains a powerful reference system with thousands of examples to view;
• Ability to use the dictionary of mathematical concepts and terms arranged in alphabetical order;
• presentation of the basics of algorithms and rules for changing mathematical expressions;
• digital and symbolic software processors;
• diagnostic system;
• internal library and additional functions;
• the ability to use internal expansion packs as well as packs from other publishers;
• Ability to use the hardware of some programming languages.
In Maple, the system node is the basis for symbolic changes.
The core of the system consists of hundreds of basic functions and symbolic transformation algorithms.
The system node is improved in each subsequent version.
Many shortcomings in the system nodes in the new versions of Maple have been fixed, and the detected errors are being changed during the testing of new versions.
Maple also has a basic library of operators, commands, and function-procedures.
Many of the functions in it, like node functions, some can be used without any representation, while others require representation.
Maple also contains problem-oriented packages, and their topics cover many parts of classical and modern mathematics.
As a programming language, Maple is considered the most powerful and best language for programming mathematical problems.
The Odelplot function in the Plots package is used to display the solutions of differential equations in stochastic problems in the form of simple graphs.
And when depicting the solution of a system of nonlinear differential equations consisting of two equations, you can plot the functions y(x) and z(x) on one coordinate axis using the Odelplot function.
In some cases, a system consisting of two differential equations can be represented by phase portraits, and the values of the results y(x) and z(x) can also be shown on the graph axes.
Let's consider an example of finding a solution to the Lotka-Voltère model of a system of differential equations.
One model of population dynamics is known as the Lotka-Voltère model, and it depicts a system of predator-prey variation in a biological population environment.
This model makes it possible to represent the periodic oscillatory change of the number of victims and predators.
Let Lotka-Volter's system of differential equations of the following type be given.
The solution of this system is shown as a vector field, and the arrows in it are shown as tangents to the solution curves (the curves themselves are not shown on the graph).
It can be seen from the following graph that the solution can be represented very visually by functional coloring of the vector field.
And now, in this example, the solution of the system of differential equations consisting of two equations is presented in the form of a volume phase portrait.
In this case, three-dimensional coordinate system and corresponding parametric dependencies x(t), y(t), z(t) graphs are provided.
Here, the phase portrait is depicted in space in a way similar to the type of volumetric spiral writing.
The presentation of the functional color ensures that the function is very visible.
The graphical function dfielplot is used to display the result of differential equations as a field using vectors.
Although this function is part of the Deplot function, it is used only when necessary.
But it can be used separately, as can be seen from the example of solving the following system of differential equations:
In general, there are many possibilities for visual representation of differential equations.
The considered examples are only some of them.
PROBLEMS OF FORMING THE RESEARCH SKILLS OF FUTURE IT TEACHERS
The article deals with the issues of forming students' research competences.
The relevance of the mentioned issue, the main concepts related to research competences in the normative documents adopted in the Republic of Kazakhstan were analyzed.
The main components of research competence are analyzed and its characteristic features are given.
Indicators of formation of research competence are defined.
The effectiveness of orienting the teaching process to the principles of the action approach in ensuring the formation and development of research competences of future computer science teachers is mentioned.
The views of researchers related to the formation of students' research competence were analyzed.
Pedagogical tools for organizing students' research activities are highlighted and their effectiveness in forming students' research competence is described.
The importance of problem-based lectures and thematic seminars as means of forming students' research competence is mentioned.
Key words: research competence, research activities, components of research competence, research competence, research competence The main task of improving the Kazakh education system is to raise the quality of school education to a new level in accordance with the requirements of social relations and values.
The measures implemented in connection with the development of the Kazakh education system are specifically mentioned in the educational development programs adopted at the state level, in the Annual Addresses of the Head of State N:A. Nazarbayev, and the social requirements for the education system from the society are formulated.
"The task of the higher school is to educate a new generation of professionally competent teachers in accordance with the current model of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan in the context of digitization" [1].
The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, in his Address to the people of Kazakhstan entitled "Third Revival" emphasized "the importance of training highly qualified personnel and the need to review the education policy" [2].
Formation of research competencies, cognitive interest of future teachers, development of their personality by involving students in research activities is considered one of the important goals of all programs aimed at higher pedagogical education.
In the concept of state youth policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "youth should be the accelerator and conductor of putting new ideas and proposals into practice.
The progress of Kazakhstani science, especially natural and technical sciences, is connected with it.
The path of young people to science is the path of the future" [2].
This problem shows that it is necessary to train future specialists in research activities within the walls of a higher educational institution [3].
The process of developing the research competence of future teachers involves a long period of time that requires a sufficient level of understanding and considerable preparation.
When talking about the process of formation of research competence of future teachers, first of all, we need to define the concept of teacher's research competence.
We consider the teacher's research competence as an integral characteristic of the teacher's personality as a whole, manifested in the process of creatively transforming reality as a subject and his readiness to conduct active research in his actions.
And the process of formation is the completion of some action or giving form to a certain thing; the process of personality development under the influence of external and internal factors (upbringing, training, social and natural environment, own activity); the formation of an individual under the influence of various factors;
final result (some level of stabilization, formation - complex qualities and qualities of an individual.
Related to pedagogical research is the process of "filling the form with a certain content" [4].
The teacher's professional competence is formed and reflected in his actions.
A teacher's research competence is a component of professional competence and ensures its effectiveness.
And the teacher's research competence is a personal characteristic of this teacher, which shows that he has mastered the entrepreneurship and methods of research activities at the level of technology in order to create an educational process in accordance with the goals and values of modern education and to search for knowledge necessary to solve teaching problems [5].
One of the urgent issues in the higher education system is to teach students how to acquire and process information on their own, using the practice of researching information based on the competence approach.
This requires students to purposefully develop their research competencies.
M.B. Shashkin and A.V. Bagachuk understands "research competence" as an integrative characteristic of an individual characterizing methodological knowledge, mastering the technology of research activity, recognizing its value and readiness to use it in professional activity [6].
Research competence is not realized according to a specific algorithm, because while conducting research, the student solves the problem in his own way, not by means of known algorithms, but by a heuristic approach.
The multifaceted nature of research competence is a student's ability to research analytically, critically, communicatively, and more. It is concluded that they use business.
This competence is applicable to any discipline, variable, flexible, and also multifunctional and universal, as a student engaged in research can use it in any situation in any field of activity.
Based on A. Leontiev's activity model, the main components of research competence are distinguished in the domestic education system, which are: cognitive, motivational, orientation and operational. E.F.
Based on Zeer's research, the structure of research competence:
it can be distinguished as consisting of motivational, cognitive and action, reflexive components [7].
The motivational component of research competence consists of the type of basic motivations that ensure the conduct of special research in the field of future professional activity.
They include: cognitive motivation (passion, desire to learn new knowledge), professional motivation (desire to learn a profession and get the results of one's work), as well as achievement motivation (desire to improve one's actions and desire for success).
The cognitive component of research competence primarily includes the set of acquired knowledge of the student necessary for research activities.
Among them, basic and procedural can be distinguished. Basic knowledge includes the theoretical and methodological foundations of research activity in the professional field, and procedural knowledge includes the methodology of research activity.
In addition, students should have developed logical and creative thinking, which is included in the cognitive component.
The operational component of research competence is characterized by learned generalized methods of research activity in the professional field.
It is based on the following research activities:
ability to orient business (choose the subject area of research), be able to pose a problem (be able to open and understand the problematic question necessary for research), be able to set a goal during the research, create a research plan, be able to collect and discuss data.
The reflective component of research competence includes the student's ability to analyze the results of his activity, more precisely, his ability to analyze the relevance of the results to the set goal, to evaluate the product of his activity based on the basis of the analysis.
These components are characterized by the following signs [8]:
- the content of these components in students' research activity;
- the possibility of development of these components in the lower courses of universities; - the ability to evaluate the development of each component.
In planning the educational process of future informatics teachers, it is effective to focus on the principles of the action approach at the methodological level to ensure the formation and development of their research competences.
Action approach allows to create the content of research competence of students, taking into account the knowledge and business necessary for research activities, and also allows to effectively organize the process of development of research competence, mobilizing students in professional research activities.
As a result of such activity, the student not only acquires certain knowledge, but also fully acquires research business and activities.
Based on the research conducted in this direction, the researchers concluded that when the consistency and continuity of the educational process is preserved (E.N. Gusinsky, M.V. Klarin, G.P. Shchedrovitsky, etc.), when the educational process is focused on the individual potential of each student (B .K. Dyachenko, D.A. Danilov, E.S. Nikitina, etc.), when the educational process is focused on technology (N.V. Kuzmina, M.V. Klarin, L.M. Mitina, etc. .), come to the opinion that research competence is formed if the learning result is predicted (N.A. Aminov, B.S. Gershunsky, V.A. Semichenko, etc.).
This problem is the general (E.F. Zeer, V.F. Kovalevsky, A.I. Turchynov, V.D. Shadrikov, etc.) and professional (V.I. Zagvyazinsky, V.V. Kraevsky) approaches of various theoretical approaches. , N.V. Kuzmina, I.P. Pastukhova, etc.) in terms of professional qualities of the student (N.A. Aminov, L.I. Fedorova, N.V. Fomin, etc.), motivational sphere, developing intellectual abilities (J. Piaget, J. Guilford, H. Heckhausen, P.G. Kabanov, V.I. Kovalev, V.A. Krutetsky, etc.), taking into account its focus on self-development it is believed that the teacher's research competence is formed in this situation [9].
GN Lobova distinguishes two components of research competence: study and research. G.N. Lobova points out that the student's educational and research competence should be the ability to set goals, the ability to pre-analyze information, situations, methods, and the ability to plan a pedagogical experiment [10].
Based on our many years of pedagogical experience, the student's learning and research competence begins with the performance of educational tasks and continues with their scientific research competence [3].
The student's scientific research competence consists of choosing a research topic, being able to independently set the research goal on the selected research topic, setting research tasks that ensure the realization of the set research goal, as well as being able to distinguish and define the research object and the research subject, predicting the obtained research results. , includes business skills and ability to make accurate research predictions.
The formation of educational and research competence is the basis for the development of scientific research competence.
Research competence is an active activity of students that ensures the acquisition of skills necessary for creative research activities.
Such an active activity ends with an attempt to independently solve the actual problems in science.
The indicator of the development of research competence necessary for future informatics teachers includes the knowledge, business and skills necessary for research as follows (Table 1).
As shown by the analysis of modern pedagogical research (L.F. Avdeeva, N.S. Amelina, S.P. Arseneva, N.M. Yakovleva, etc.), specially organized training of students for research activities in the formation of research competence tools play an important role. One group of researchers offers special or elective courses that involve the step-by-step implementation of pedagogical scientific research on their own as a means of forming research competence [9].
The next group of researchers believes that it is a contextual learning technology that brings students closer to real professional research activities, the main characteristic of which is the modeling of the subject and social content of the specialist's future professional activities with the help of a system of teaching forms, tools and methods.
The concept of contextual learning was proposed by A.A. Verbitsky [11]. According to the researcher's concept, professional problems, tasks and its functions should be presented in the professional activity model of the future specialist.
Methods and forms aimed at professional orientation include: course and diploma works, pedagogical problem situations of professional activity, professional tasks, scientific research works, practical and business games, pedagogical and industrial practice.
Practicums including problem lectures, thematic seminars, joint reading and analysis of scientific texts, and feedback as means of forming students' research competence [12].
The success of problem lectures is ensured by the professional skills of the student audience and the teacher.
In a problem-based lecture, students are not only educated, but also taught to find ways to solve objective contradictions.
Solving the given problem should mobilize the students in the research activity, that is, to open the problem, to find a solution and to produce it.
In conclusion, the educational process, which is rationally organized, based on the use of innovative technologies, aimed at forming the research competence of students, allows to train future specialists in accordance with the requirements of today's time.
Only future teachers who are accustomed to research activities from the walls of a higher educational institution will be inclined to educate individuals who meet the requirements of today's society for specialists.
Individuals with developed research competence can become the driving force of the development of the society, the harbinger of news.