ORGANIZING "CRYPTOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS" WITH THE HELP OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES
The development of new information technologies greatly contributed to the emergence of new and high-quality teaching tools and software complexes in the field of education.
The main requirement of information technology is to provide students with the basics of informational knowledge.
Currently, in the field of education, teaching and learning using methodological tools shows very good indicators.
An example of equipment using software in the article:
"Access control systems", "Cryptographic systems", "Bar coding" for the subject of "Information protection and information security" are described, and it is also clearly stated how to build educational and methodological complexes of software complexes and work with them.
It is worth noting that this article describes how convenient and effective it is to train knowledge by working with educational devices in laboratory and practical classes.
Keywords: new technologies, information protection, cryptography, innovative service
It is known that a new technological revolution is taking place due to the widespread use of information and telecommunication technology in developed countries.
Therefore, modern functional requirements are set before people, and the worker must not only perform production tasks well, but also be able to design, make decisions and perform creative works in his own way.
Therefore, such attitudes and qualifications of these specialists should be formed from a young age, and further developed during the periods of study and work activities.
That is why all scientists of the world conclude that the development of science and technology in the 21st century will improve human activities in all areas.
Due to the development of information protection and information security, since the beginning of the 21st century, access control systems have been strengthened and rapidly developed.
Cryptography, as a part of information protection, is currently used by many educational devices in the fields of education of higher educational institutions, and professional techniques optimized for practical work are used during classes.
In particular, we can name "Access control systems", "Cryptographic systems", "Barcoding" and many others.
To work with the "Access control system" among these systems, a special Edge Solo program is required. Based on this program, special smart cards are required to open the doors of the "access control system".
A smart card is a plastic card with a microcircuit (English integratedcitcuitcard, ICC-integrated circuit card).
In most cases, a microprocessor and an operating system are embedded in a smart card, and ways to open devices and objects in its memory are provided.
It was invented by the French scientist R. Moreno in 1974.
The principle of recording information is different from that of magnetic stripe cards. The Smart card provides a high level of protection of stored information, as well as a different level of service.
In particular, the storage of a unique unique number allows to identify the cardholder (in personal mode) during operations without contacting the authorization center [1].
Smart cards
CLA-TEAM CLASS
INC-INSTRUCTIONS CODE
P1, P2-ADVANCED SPECIAL COMMANDS
Creation of an access control management system based on the database of communication smart cards works with the G - Scriptor program.
While working with "access control systems", it is important to first learn how to program smart cards based on contact smart cards database.
"Cryptographic systems" include public and private keys and a software package for working with special command lines, such as "Access control system".
The two fundamental operations of cryptography are encryption and decryption.
Encryption is the encoding of data in such a way that the original information cannot be extracted.
In this decryption, the encoded data is returned to the original using cryptographic keys [2].
In short, encryption and decryption require a cipher algorithm and a key.
Because there are many encryption algorithms, including Data Encryption Standard (DES), Rivest/Sharmir/Adleman (RSA) ciphers, RC2 and RC5.
In each of these settings, a key is used in accordance with an algorithm to convert plain text (readable) to ciphertext (encoded and unreadable).
DES, RC2, and RC5 are known as symmetric key technology or secret key cryptography because the same key used to encrypt data is also used to decrypt it.
Therefore, the key must be secretly shared between the group that encrypts the data and the group that determines its encryption.
RSA is popularly known as shared key cryptography or asymmetric cryptography because these two types of keys are usually in constant use, i.e. public key and private key.
The keys are mathematically related, but without knowing one, one cannot deduce the other.
The private key is kept secret — only those who created the cryptographic pair can access it.
A shared key is used in non-secure environments such as the Internet.
When using shared key systems, there is no shared secret between the two parties.
However, if the public key is used to encrypt data, then only the private key can decrypt it.
Likewise, if a private key is used to encrypt data, only the public key can decrypt it.
It is impossible not to know these things as much as possible.
Because in order to fully understand the complexities of the cryptographic system, it is necessary to study this field as deeply as possible.
Because in the future, when giving a lecture on the topic to the community of students, it is required to know this field as well as possible.
That is why it is very important and necessary to know the news and changes in the industry in a timely manner [3].
There are different ways to teach the cryptographic system to general educators.
In this regard, it is worth mentioning that teaching cryptographic system to students includes in-depth theoretical knowledge as well as strengthening it through laboratory practices, as well as holding such practical classes.
Yes, let's say, in addition to explaining such details of the cryptographic system as widely and deeply as possible to the community of educators, it is impossible not to hold laboratory classes in order to sequence their knowledge.
To prove our point, let's take for example the laboratory work on applying an encryption algorithm to encrypt a text file using Open SSL.
The purpose of the work is to train the use of Open SSL software encryption algorithm, to study DES and RSA algorithms.
Thus, in the course of this laboratory work, all points of theoretical control - "Encryption with a private key", "DES algorithm", "Public key ciphers", "RSA algorithm" and control points "Encryption using symmetric algorithms", "Use of asymmetric algorithms for encryption" is learned, a text file is developed with semantic content, a key for encryption of the DES algorithm using Open SSL is developed, they are applied to the text file, the encryption time is measured and recorded.
Similarly, encryption of DES-EDE and 3DES algorithms using only the DES function is performed, and the results are compared with Open SSL indicators.
Compliance is verified by manually encrypting and decrypting with Open SSL.
Time is taken into account every time.
These actions are repeated 7-8 times for the RSA algorithm.
In addition, it is necessary to compare the encryption times performed using DES, DES-EDE and 3DES, RSA algorithms.
Similarly, consider using hashing algorithms to prove file immutability using Open SSL.
The goal of the work is to train hashing algorithms to prove file immutability using Open SSL.
So, it is clear that when Koryta comes, it is possible to conduct such laboratory work and, in addition, to elaborate and confirm the theoretical knowledge given through practical lessons of this kind.
In short, it opens the way and makes it possible for students to fully master the modern cryptographic system.
METHODS OF DRAWING AND CONVERTING SIMPLE VIDEOS IN MACROMEDIA FLASH
In today's age of information technology development, people's exchange of large amounts of information via the Internet, including working with animated information, requires a large amount of memory.
In this regard, it is effective to use Flash technology, which allows to reduce the amount of data.
With Flash, you can create everything from simple to complex animations.
Animation created in the Flash environment takes tens and hundreds of times smaller than animations created in AVI or MPEG formats.
Its size does not depend on the size of the Flash movie window, and the project developed in the Macromedia Flash program creates a wide opportunity for creative work in order to make the Internet page pleasant and eye-catching and easy and understandable for many users.
The article presents methods of creating and converting simple videos using the tools of the Flash program.
Keywords: computer technologies, Flash technology, animation, toolbar, transformation, grouping of objects.
"In order for Kazakhstan to become one of the fifty most competitive countries in the world, we need an educated, comprehensively developed, talented and capable generation."
The main goal of education workers today is to raise education in the country to an international level and raise the quality of education, to form an individual, to meet the needs of society, and to integrate it into the global educational space [1].
Radical changes in the modern Kazakh educational space are a historical objective process.
The goal of reforming the education sector is to review the education system and create conditions for students to get oriented and step-by-step education according to their creative adaptation.
Today, it is not enough to measure the quality of education of pupils and students by knowledge, knowledge and skills.
The current requirement is that the quality of education is measured by their ability to use the acquired knowledge for the further development of their personality and the development of society as a person.
In his address to the people of Kazakhstan entitled "The Third Revival of Kazakhstan: Global Competitiveness", the President said:
"We must develop new industries that will be created using digital technology.
This is an important complex task.
The country should develop 3D-printing, online shopping, mobile banking, digital services, health care, education and other promising areas.
These industries have already changed the structure of the economies of developed countries and given a new quality to traditional industries", he gave a clear orientation [2].
In this era, when information technologies are rapidly developing, if we do not develop the IT industry, it is difficult to be among the 30 developed countries.
After all, all civilized countries have moved to this digital system and are improving the development of their industry and the welfare of their people year after year.
The economic power of any country, the high standard of living of its people, its place and weight in the world community are determined by the level of technological development of that country.
In general, the quality of the development of society and the introduction of new technologies depends on the level of education in this country and the level of information in this field.
Technological ideas in the field of education appeared 400 years ago.
Today, computer and multimedia technologies are undergoing a great change.
One such technology is Flash technology, which is developing at a rapid pace.
Now, let's introduce you to the basics of Flash technology, how to draw and convert simple videos.
Flash means "very fast" or "very bright colored thing" in English.
Or it can be both at the same time.
Macromedia Flash is an integrated environment for creating interactive vector animation used in the creation of Web sites and presentations.
With the help of the program, you can perform the following tasks: drawing, rendering vector and raster graphics, converting received raster graphics into vector graphics, working with text, changing the shape of objects depending on time and space, creating a control element for interactive animation, sounding videos, events, for animation Creating and using libraries of images, clips, buttons and ActionScript scripts using the ActionScript programming language [3].
Flash program Web - a program used to create animations.
Nowadays, with the help of the Flash program, complex interactive oriented images, dynamic Web pages, cartoons, games, etc. can be created. can be organized.
File extension *. fla (Flash document) and *. swf (Small Web - File) type.
Flash's tools are the main tool for creating and editing graphics.
To select a tool, select the desired button or hotkey from the toolbar.
In silent mode, the toolbar is located on the left side of the program window and can be moved anywhere on the screen.[4]
Now let's take a look at the tools on the toolbar.
First, start Macromedia Flash 8 from the Windows main menu
♦ Programs
♦ Macromedia ♦ Macromedia Flash 8 ( Ed menu ♦ Programs ♦ Macromedia ♦ Macromedia Flash 8) command do it sitting download .
The working window of the Macromedia Flash 8 program will open on the screen. In silent mode, the toolbar is located on the left side of this window.
The board becomes a pop-up window and can be placed anywhere on the screen.
The toolbar consists of four parts.
They are: Tools, View, Colors and Settings section.
Let's look at the method of drawing a "Bouquet of Flowers" in order to fully master the work with the toolbar.
Draw a petal with the "Circle" tool on the toolbar.
We mark the color of the petals as red.
Open the Transform panel using the WindowTransform command, and set the value 200 to the rotation angle field in the opened panel.
Using the copy and transform button located in the lower left corner of this panel, we increase the number of flower petals as needed.
We highlight and group the flower.
By selecting the free transform tool, we shift the center of the flower down.
In the transformation panel, change the value of the rotation angle to 600 and get a copy of the flower.
At the end of the work, the result will be as shown in the picture.
Let's take a look at the next method "Drawing a ship".
Select the brush tool and set the color to brown.
Set the shape and size of the brush tool.
We draw a curved line with the brush tool and change the image of the ship with the Highlight tool.
Choose another shape of the brush tool and write the word "Wave" on the side of the ship.
Select the object, group it, and select the Free Transform tool to reduce the size of the object.
To draw a picture of a sail, select the line tool and draw a line.
With the brush tool, we draw a picture of the ship's sail, and with the help of the Selection tool, we separate half of the sail separately.
We group all the objects and select the mode of painting the background of the Brush tool.
Change the shape of the brush tool and paint the background color blue.
Select the Pencil Tool, set the Stroke Style to Line Type, set the Size to 14, and draw the outline of the boat.
Change the thickness and size of the brush tool, set the color to blue, and draw a wave image. The result will be as shown in the picture.
We save the result.
In conclusion, we believe that our article will help students and undergraduates, secondary school and higher education computer science teachers and lecturers, and graphic designers who want to learn how to make simple videos in Macromedia Flash and make changes to them.
USE OF VIRTUAL DESKTOP INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE STUDY PROCESS
The main content of the research is the analysis of the issue of conducting classes for students of technical specialties of Narkhoz University on relevant subjects related to information systems and technologies.
As a solution to this problem, the method of using the infrastructure of virtual workplaces (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure) is put forward.
Cloud technology has a special place in modern times.
Based on this technology, in order to use such an infrastructure, it is necessary to teach students to think independently, identify problems and solve them, for this purpose we decide that it is effective to use the infrastructure of virtual workplaces (VDI) in the educational process.
The search for new means of teaching from an innovative point of view explains that teachers need to use action-oriented, practical-oriented, problem-based, reflective and other forms and methods of teaching and learning.
This technology is used individually or in a complex manner at any level of situations in the field of education.
Keywords: virtualization, data, information, knowledge, educational process, virtual infrastructure.
VDI is a form of virtualization of desktop systems where all elements of the user's desktop are placed in a data processing center.
The user connects to his desktop remotely from any client device.
At the same time, the user's desktop, applications, and data on his device are not stored locally.
Taking into account the rapid development and use of new technologies, among which the infrastructure of virtual workplaces (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure, VDI) has become widespread, it seems attractive to us to build the educational process at the university based on its use.
What are the benefits of VDI technology? We have the following:
 Virtualization significantly reduces the energy consumption of peripheral stations and improves the ergonomics of workplaces.
 Each user (student) will have the opportunity to assign an individual workplace.
The student receives independent hardware and software implemented openly in a virtual environment.
Thus, the student will not feel that he is working in a virtual environment, not a physical one.
 As a positive side of this technology, it can be noted the possibility of providing the required number of server resources: processor power, RAM, disk space individually.
In the following picture you can see the model of virtual workplaces [1].
Our technical curriculum includes subjects such as information security, computer networking, engineering and computer graphics, and more.
Future specialists should also have knowledge in computer science, automated information processing and management systems, software, computing and automated systems.
During training, students perform many different laboratory works and exercises on personal computers in computer classes with a total number of more than 400 computers.
There are two exam sessions during the academic year, which are also conducted using high-tech equipment.
Currently, the university has a number of problems related to providing services to computer classes and providing access to personal computers for students [5].
Different training courses require different configurations of operating systems and applications.
In addition, each of the students prefers to customize the working environment for himself. Sometimes, the installed programs are not compatible with each other, which leads to the need to create and install separate images of operating systems, which takes a lot of time.
In addition, as in any computer classroom, the problem of ensuring the functionality of IT equipment in the event of user errors is acute at the university.
Therefore, the majority of administrators' time is spent servicing and reinstalling software images.
During the period of preparing for the session and passing it, the workload of computer classes increases dramatically.
As a result of the analysis of these issues, the IT management decided to introduce a system of virtualization of desktops (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure), which would reduce the costs of supporting the IT infrastructure and allow students to work from any computer with all the necessary resources.
When using such a solution, instead of physical computers, work is performed on virtual machines that run on a server in the Data Processing Center.
The user connects to the desired virtual machine from any workstation and works with it.
In this case, the physical computer is only an access point and is not tied to a specific workstation or user.
This allows you to create a virtual machine for each student without buying additional computers.
"Thin" clients and even tablets can be used as access points.
In addition, the solution allows you to create various templates, from which you can instantly create new virtual workplaces with the required configuration.
The company's specialists created a virtual network infrastructure based on Microsoft Hyper-V Server using distributed storage space.
Based on it, the infrastructure of virtual desktops based on Citrix XenDesktop VDI Edition and Microsoft System Center products was developed.
Citrix XenDesktop is a workstation virtualization (as a service) system that provides centralized access to workstations.
This method makes it possible to improve data protection due to the complete centralization of the life cycle of virtual workstations in the data center.
According to the results of project implementation, the university would receive additional opportunities and benefits.
For example, the effectiveness of the educational process has increased due to the fact that every student can access a personal virtual desktop from any point of the world and from any device.
The solution is characterized by a high degree of protection against viruses due to security, including centralized storage of all workstations on university servers.
One of the main, important results of the project is a significant decrease in labor costs of the IT department to support the work of the IT infrastructure of the university, due to the centralized management and updating of workstations, a reduction in the cost of ownership of workstations and a decrease in the total costs of maintaining a fleet of personal computers.
Virtualization technologies have become an integral part of the modern IT infrastructure, providing conditions for significantly accelerating the introduction of new systems, as well as optimizing the costs of supporting existing systems.
Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) is a relatively new concept, but large enterprises are already using this technology very effectively.
VECTOR OPTIMIZATION MODELS AND ALGORITHMS FOR CHOOSING PROTECTION TOOLS FOR INFORMATION EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
The peculiarities of using the Edgeworth-Pareto method in the problem of multidimensional discrete optimization related to the assessment of the security of the university's information and educational environment and the technical equipment of the university are considered.
A modified method based on a combination of Edgeworth-Pareto discrete optimization and Podinowski's lexicographic method was proposed.
An algorithm for choosing rational solutions from the proposed options for the protection of technical equipment for the information and educational environment of the university (ABBO) is proposed.
To determine the set of Pareto-optimal solutions, the vector criterion of cost estimation is used, which considers two optimal conditions as components:
evaluation of technical means of protection of the analyzed options and assessment of its technical efficiency.
Keywords: information protection, technical means of protection, method, discrete optimization.
1. Introduction.
As the number and complexity of cyber-attacks on public and private structures increases, one of the main tasks of educational informatization around the world has become the issue of ensuring cyber security of the information and educational environment of the university[1-3].
The technical base of the modern information educational environment of the university includes various information networks of educational information platforms, portals, resources for educational activities, as well as technical means of network communications.
However, when creating a university's information educational environment, current methodological approaches to comprehensive information and cyber security are not always taken into account [2-4].
Analysis of the current world experience often reduces the broad approach to solving information security and cyber security issues by increasing information protection tools and measures[5, 6].
This approach does not eliminate the problems associated with the protection of information in the information education environment of the university and their cyber security.
Despite the wide implementation of information technologies in the development of the university's information educational environment and educational activities, there is still a lack of innovative approaches to the problems of information protection and cyber security management mechanisms in this area.
Therefore, the topic of the article is important for the development of a multi-criteria discrete optimization method and algorithm for the selection of technical protection tools for the university's information-educational environment.
2. Analysis of literary data and formulation of the problem
The increase in threats to information security has led to an increase in research in the development of effective technical protection tools and information security systems [7, 8].
A separate line of research is the creation of decision support systems and the creation of expert systems for solving the problems of choosing specialized hardware and software equipment and information security systems [4, 5].
These studies are not yet complete.
As the authors note [7, 8], many technical models for selecting protection and information security systems based on the Edgeworth-Pareto method in the problem of multi-criteria discrete optimization related to security assessment, in particular, the uniqueness of the university, are not taken into account.
3. The purpose of the research.
Development of an optimal selection algorithm for the design of information security systems for the information education environment of the university, taking into account all possible options for the implementation of the information security policy.
4. Materials and methods.
A modified mathematical method for the optimal selection of technical means of protecting the information and educational environment of the university is presented.
It is recommended to use a set of mathematical paradigms based on Edgeworth-Pareto and Podinovsky methods.
The proposed approach uses two criteria: the cost criterion and the application efficiency criterion.
It is assumed that the "Effectiveness of use" criterion is much more than the "Cost" criterion.
It is assumed that the criteria have numerical weighting coefficients, the set of which is the same in all cases.
Figure 1 shows a schematic representation of the processes of finding optimality and computations in all prioritized domains.
The priority number corresponds to the district in question.
Finding the optimal solution in region I is globally optimal, and locally optimal in all other regions.
Region II is sub-optimal in terms of cost-optimality.
Zone III is not optimal according to the "Usability efficiency" criterion.
Region IV is suboptimal in two immediate dimensions.
These values describe the same technical characteristics and research object.
Each form of research is presented as the jth vector-column of the matrix A (1).
The values of the elements of these vectors describe the corresponding properties of the criteria.
Each row vector of matrix A is represented as a vector whose elements are represented as numeric values.
The number of path vectors (N) is equal to the number of criteria or specifications.
If each criterion has its own weight, this method is called the Podinovsky lexicographic method [8].
The values of the column vector of the relevant object of study allow to determine whether the considered model is optimal or does not meet this criterion.
When using the considered vector optimization method, one or more objects studied according to the considered criterion may be suboptimal.
In this case, the decision-maker may include this research object in the optimal list.
Then, in the list of optimal objects, there will be several research objects with the same values for all criteria.
In this case, the decision-maker invites experts to consider the research object and choose the best one.
Taking into account the above-mentioned features, the developed computational algorithm for the optimal selection of models of access control and management systems in the information education environment of the university, when the "cost-effectiveness" evaluation criterion is used.
The block diagram of this algorithm is shown in Fig. 2a, 2b.
Further control was transferred to block I - search for a solution in area I.
In the I-block, the search is carried out in the vector of the element Q, which exceeds the maximum value qj and the specified limit value qopt.
If such an element is found, the optimality test is performed on the second dimension.
The result of the algorithm in block I is the selection of the optimal technical solution.
After that, the issue of accepting the decision chosen by the expert group will be resolved.
To give a positive result, the appropriate decision is made and the calculation process is completed.
If this technical decision is not made, it is removed from the list of reviewed decisions and control is transferred back to Block I.
If there is no optimal solution in block I or it deviates, then transition to block II is provided.
In block II, the process of finding a suitable solution according to the "costs" criterion is optimal according to the "effectiveness of use" criterion.
First, all elements of the vector Q exceed the threshold value qopt.
The indicators of the selected elements are entered into the temporary list.
The following expression appears.
Then, it searches the list for elements whose value of the cost criterion Vpor is close to the threshold value.
This gives the following expression.
If such elements are not found, they are from block II. If the search is successful, the most efficient and lowest cost item is searched.
Block II deals with the process of finding maximum values.
If there are no such values, the search stops in this area.
Search results in Region II are released for approval.
If the search results in regions I and II are not satisfied, then the algorithm provides search for solutions close to optimality in regions III and IV.
If the proposed options are not accepted, the algorithm intends to move to the search for optimal solutions according to one criterion, regions II or III and region IV, where the solutions are globally optimal.
If the examination is again rejected or the additional version of the options is stopped, the algorithm reports on the process of searching for optimal solutions from the proposed options of technical systems.
5. Experiment.
Computational experiments were conducted (Figure 3).
Random values of parameters [6, 7, 8] were taken as initial data.
During the analysis of the program, the correctness of the algorithm was monitored in order to find the optimal solution among the proposed options of technical protection and information security.
In the process of generating random numbers, a two-dimensional array is obtained, which is represented as a dot plot.
The results obtained in the graph are the expanded region for finding the optimal solution for the proposed method and the "cost-effectiveness" criterion.
The correctness of the results obtained during the testing of the program and algorithm was established.
6. Conclusions
1. A multi-criteria discrete optimization method has been improved to solve the problems of evaluating the security of the university's information and educational environment.
The solution is based on a combination of the Edgeworth-Pareto discrete optimization method and the Podinovsky lexicographic method.
A vector criterion for decision evaluation was developed, which considers two conditions for optimality as a component:
to evaluate the option of technical protection measures under consideration and to evaluate the technical efficiency of the modification for the specific informational educational environment of the university.
2. Taking into account all possible options for implementing an information security system, an optimal selection algorithm was developed and tested during the design of technical protection tools for the information educational environment of the university.
MODELING OF LARGE-DIMENSIONAL DATA PROCESSING
Identifying large amounts of data BigData is used to apply technologies such as storing and analyzing large amounts of data that require high-speed and real-time decision making.
Usually, when talking about the importance of analytical processing, especially when the term DataMining is used, it refers to the presence of big data.
There are no universal analysis or algorithms that are suitable for all situations and for all amounts of information.
Data analysis methods differ greatly in performance, output quality, availability, and data requirements.
Optimization can be done at different levels:
equipment, databases, analytical platforms, raw data preparation, special algorithms.
The authors of the article are using the results of the research in large-scale data modeling and Web application development.
Keywords: Big data, processing, information analysis, modeling, methods
Analyzing a large amount of data requires a special method, because when technical difficulties arise, they must be processed only by black power, that is, powerful equipment must be used.
Of course, we can increase the speed of data processing thanks to productive equipment, especially modern servers and workstations use multi-core processors, massive memory and powerful disk arrays.
However, there are many other ways to process large amounts of data that scale and don't require endless hardware upgrades.
Features provided by the database management system
Let's consider the possibility of using a database management system.
Modern databases include various mechanisms [1], the use of which significantly increases the speed of analytical processing:
- Data frequently encountered during analysis can be pre-processed and stored in a special table in the form of a multi-dimensional cube on the database server, ready for further processing. - Caching tables to main memory.
Frequently used data during analysis, for example, references, can be cached in RAM using database resources.
Reduces disk access to a small system several times.
- Divide tables into partitions and table spaces.
Data can be placed on separate disks, indexes, auxiliary tables.
This allows the database management system to read and write information to parallel disks.
In addition, the table can be divided into sections.
For example, we can use one logical table with historical data, and if we need monthly data by dividing it into small physical sections, it is not necessary to read only this small section and read the entire historical data.
Increasing the speed of information retrieval from the database in other ways [2]:
rational indexing, query planning, parallel processing of SQL queries, clustering, preparing data for analysis using stored procedures, database server-side triggers, and many of these mechanisms can be used with empty databases.
Combining models
The opportunity to increase speed is not limited to database optimization, a lot can be done by combining different models.
Processing speed depends on the complexity of the used mathematical apparatus.
The simpler the analysis mechanisms, the faster the data was analyzed.
A data processing script can be made to run data through sieve models [3]
A simple idea is used here:
no need to spend time on data that does not require analysis.
First of all, simple algorithms are used.
The part of the data that can be processed by such algorithms and cannot be processed by more sophisticated methods is analyzed and excluded from further processing.
The rest of the data is transferred to the next processing stage along the chain, where more complex algorithms are used.
The last node of the processing script uses the most complex algorithms, but the analyzed data is several times smaller than the original sample.
As a result, the total time needed to process all data is reduced.
Let's give a practical example of using this approach.
When solving demand forecasting problems, it is recommended to conduct an XYZ-analysis, which allows you to determine how stable the demand for various goods is at the beginning.
Goods of the X group are regularly sold, so the use of predictive algorithms allows you to get a qualitative predictive result.
Goods of the Y group are sold less regularly, so the use of forecasting algorithms for them allows you to get accurate quality forecasts.
The liquidity of the Z group of goods is very good, so it is not necessary to create these predictive models for them, the need for them can be calculated based on simple formulas, for example, the average monthly sales volume.
According to statistics, 70% of the product range is the Z product group.
Y-group goods account for 25%, and X-group goods account for 5%.
Here, creating a complex model and using it is relevant only for 30% of goods.
Therefore, the use of the above-mentioned approach reduces the time of analysis and forecasting by 5-10 times.
Parallel processing
Another effective strategy for processing large amounts of data is to divide the data into segments and create models for each segment separately, further combining the results.
Often we can distinguish several different subsets of a large amount of data.
Maybe it's a group of customers, a group of goods that go the same way, leading to the creation of a particular model.
In this case, instead of creating a single complex model for each segment, you can create several simple ones [4].
Such an approach allows to increase the speed of analysis and reduce the amount of memory.
In addition, in this case, analytical processing can be parallelized, which also has a positive effect on the time spent.
In addition, models for each segment can generate different analyses.
In addition to increasing speed, this approach has another important advantage:
A few simple models are easier to build and maintain than a large one.
You can run the models in stages and get the first results in a short period of time.
A representative sample
Representative sampling is not all information, and some subset modeling can be used with large amounts of data [5].
A well-prepared representative sample contains the information needed to build a quality model.
The process of analytical processing is divided into 2 parts:
build a model and apply it to new data.
Creating a complex model is a resource-intensive process.
Depending on the used algorithms, the data is cached, scanned a thousand times, and a set of auxiliary parameters is calculated.
Applying an established model to new data requires tens or even hundreds of times less resources.
In this way, the model is built on a small set of data and applied to all data in the future.
The time to get the result is reduced with respect to all the data with full processing in turn.
There are special methods for obtaining a representative sample, using which we can analyze the speed of analytical processing without losing quality.
For example, sampling. (sampling translated from English means effective method, sampling.) there are special methods that allow to increase sampling (see Figure 3).
New types of databases.
Due to the increase in the amount of information, there are problems with hard disk storage (this part of the problem is relatively easy to solve) and the most important thing is timely access to the necessary data.
You can use fancy caches, but it won't help in the end.
You can divide the database into parts and fit each part into our own databases.
If the size of the database increases, the speed of the system will decrease significantly.
One way to save data access time is to place the database in RAM. [7]
This technique is 100 times faster and more efficient.
The in-memory database, IMDB-database, uses the computer's RAM to store data, that is, RAM is the main data storage location in such systems.
Due to the fact that the cost of RAM is decreasing day by day, its use as a storage space is effective and increases the speed of data processing. [7]
There are new types of databases that can perform self-analysis to work with large volumes of data.
At present, this definition is generally used by all databases.
The first self-analyzing database was created by the developers of Terrada.[8]
Also, one of the database types is the column data store.
In recent years, a number of database systems have emerged, including MonetDB [9] , [10] and C-Store [11] , which store data by column.
According to the designers of these systems, these systems provide optimal results in performing some workloads, especially in database warehouse applications with many queries, and provide the desired results when reading data in the workload [12].
Conclusion
These approaches are only a small part of the methods that allow the analysis of large amounts of data.
There are other methods, such as custom scaling algorithms, hierarchical models, learning windows, etc. is to use.
Analysis of large databases is a major large-scale problem, which in many cases does not have a clear solution.
Today's modern database and analytical platforms offer several ways to solve these problems.
If we can apply them effectively to the system, we can process terabytes of data at real speed.
The authors of the article use the results of analytical research in the modeling of large-scale data and in the development of Web applications, in the coordination of models in order to improve the results of large-scale data processing.
USE OF INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES IN EDUCATION OF INFORMATICS
The article deals with the features of using innovative technologies in the educational process.
Currently, N. is involved in the educational process. Innovative technologies, which are introduced "en masse" at the initiative of Nurakhmetov, appear at the crossroads of important problems, look at the methods of the educational process from a new perspective and are directed to its continuous modernization.
The use of such technologies - firstly, the teacher wins, that is, it helps to organize the lesson effectively, the student's interest in the subject increases, and secondly, the student wins, because his knowledge on the subject expands.
Thus, the quality of education will increase if changes are made to the existing methodology of education from the point of view of new teaching technology.
Key words: innovation, technology, innovative model, interactive methods, intelligence map, associogram, pedagogical technology.
The 21st century is the century of science.
Therefore, radical changes are taking place in the way of new education for the young generation.
In the work of our President "New decade - new economic growth - new opportunities of Kazakhstan" it was shown that by 2020, all children in urban and rural areas will be covered by education and training before school age [1].
In today's era of rapid development of science and technology, it is evident from the results of educational achievements of students that the traditional teaching technology at school does not guarantee students' full mastery of the basics of science at the state standard level.
Therefore, the main direction is given to improve the quality of education by improving the current pedagogical technologies of revitalizing the educational process and using it effectively in teaching subjects.
Today, it is known that various innovative pedagogical technologies are used in the educational process in schools.
It is impossible to cover all these technologies in the lessons of one subject.
Therefore, in the rational mastering of each subject at school, the teacher should pay attention to the student's acceptance of technology, his enthusiasm and desire by choosing and selecting teaching technology and improving it in practice.
Pedagogical principles of innovative technologies:
look at the child from the point of view of virtue;
unity of education and training;
formation and development of the child's cognitive power;
mastering the child's methods of independent action;
development of cognitive and creative flexibility of the child;
teaching each student according to his ability and level of opportunity;
systematic work for the development of all students.
A new system of education is being introduced in all educational institutions of the country.
The main goal here is to enter the global space of knowledge in the era of globalization.
In this regard, the content of education and the requirements for it will change.
That is why innovative teaching technologies are now being used in all educational institutions.
Therefore, there is a need for innovation, that is, on the basis of an innovative system, to increase the activity of the students of the educational institution, to form self-confidence, to develop cognitive and creative abilities, to determine their activity-confidence qualities by diagnostic methods, to teach them to express their thoughts freely in class and outside of class, to learn what is happening in society. helps to determine the norms, signs, and indicators of the innovative order to have attitudes to the events [2].
If we talk about modern innovative technology, technology comes from the Greek word, which means artistry, skill, business.
If we turn to the opinion of the scientist-pedagogue, psychologists, V. Bespalko [3] in his work "Slagaemye pedagogiecheskoy tehnologii" defines it as "Pre-systematic design of the educational process, its implementation in practice, i.e. the practical project of a known pedagogical system". is considered.
Our President N.A. In the message of Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan-2030" addressed to the people of Kazakhstan, "Our young country will grow, develop and mature, and our children and grandchildren will grow up with it.
A new system of education is currently being created in Kazakhstan in order to enter the world educational space.
This process requires, in addition to making real changes to the theory of pedagogy and the process of learning and education, a new approach to educational activities in various directions in the country, a critical evaluation of the achievements, development of the creative potential of young people, and a new organization of teacher activities.
In the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education":
"The main task of the educational system is to provide conditions for education aimed at the formation of an individual and professional development based on national and general civic values, scientific and practical achievements; introduction of new technologies of education, informatization of education, access to international global communication networks" - aims at the tasks of further development of the education system.
In order to solve these problems, through the daily search of school teams, every teacher, there is a need to move to a new practice, a new relationship, which is a bold path to change, all innovations and reconstruction.
That's why in our modern society, every teacher should be able to make the necessary changes in his/her actions, accept information on various experiences, new methods and methods in a timely manner and use them correctly.
One of the most important issues is mastering the scientific and pedagogic bases of teachers' innovative activities in the education and training of the next generation in accordance with society's requirements [1].
The structure of the innovative model in the learning process can be shown as follows:
The use of new teaching technologies in the learning process, teaching with interactive methods is very effective in the teaching of the informatics course in the general secondary school and, in turn, requires the creative and innovative abilities of the informatics teacher.
The use of interactive methods in the teaching of computer science is considered in the works of a number of Kazakh researchers.
Among the interactive methods, conducting classes with a small group, using creative tasks, educational games, business game tasks, project methods [4], intelligence map [5], associogram methods and information and communication tools [6] is widely used in practice.
The use of these methods arouses the student's interest, increases his creative abilities, expands his thinking, improves his language skills, increases his literacy in the information society, forms the activity of working with technical equipment, gives orientation to the future, teaches him to plan his future clearly.
Based on this, a sample lesson plan for teaching the "Telecommunications" section of the 8th grade computer science course in a general secondary school conducted using new teaching technologies and active new interactive methods is presented.
The innovative model of this lesson plan is planned in the following structure:
The lesson plan of the "Telecommunications" department on the topic "The task of computer communication, basic concepts of computer networks, local network, large-scale computer network, access to Internet resources, Internet services" is shown in table 1 below:
Our President N.A. No one can doubt that those who will actively participate in the implementation of Nazarbayev's program until 2030, who will acquire the wealth of vast Kazakhstan, and who will use that wealth for their own property, are our students who are currently in school.
Our goal as teachers is to increase students' creative abilities along with national pedagogical education and education.
That is why it is the honorable duty of every teacher to organize the lesson on a scientific basis from an ideological point of view, related to life, to show the student's curiosity and desire for knowledge, to teach students to think, to do independent research, to be able to summarize their thoughts orally and in writing, and to teach them how to speak culture.
As Magzhan Zhumabaev said, "When teaching a child, one should move from the far to the near, from the familiar to the foreign, and connect the new knowledge with the old knowledge" is necessary.
MODELING WEB SERVICES IN A UNIFIED INFORMATION SPACE THROUGH PETRI NETS
In the context of the transition to the information society, socio-economic and state changes, as well as the constantly changing volume of information, created the need for modernization of education.
Modernization of science is clearly indicated in the guidelines and guidelines adopted by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Information and communication technology provides fruitful results in the teaching process in creating situations in which an individual can fully reveal his creative potential, develop his capabilities, and obtain his knowledge.
Each step of evolution was determined by the emergence of new technologies and the creation of the appropriate infrastructure.
The essence of any step of evolution is to improve the mechanism of service publication, search for services, execution of queries and delivery of answers.
Web services are the last step in the evolution of the services paradigm.
Internet and Web technologies are the catalysts of this development.
Web services provide an easy and convenient way to deliver, search, query, and publish services.
Keywords: Web service, Petri net, information space, XML technologies, XML schema, Resource Description Framework (RDF), Common Information Model (CIM), Generic Interface Definition (GID), GID-interface.
Informatization of education requires preparation of new educational technologies. First of all, they include electronic textbooks, multimedia educational tools and electronic records.
Modeling is widespread in engineering disciplines and various models are used in the design of software packages.
For example, object-oriented design created in the UML language connects unitary models with sets, functional models with IDEF0 model assembly.
From this point of view, removing all the details that are not important, each model allows you to look at the designed software complex from a specific point of view.
In the most holistic view, the model is set in many objects and relationships between them.
However, it is abstractly useful in very specific situations.
In practice, the modeling aspect is very important:
presentation in the form of a convenient schedule helps in solving a lot of questions, starting from the formulation of requirements and relations with the customer, and ending with the introduction of changes to the working complex.
In a real system, in particular, in a software complex, object relationships, object properties change in the functional process.
To solve many questions, it is very important to be able to observe these transition states not in the real system, but in its model.
Therefore, it is very important to have a "mover" with a model of the "movement" system.
From this point of view, an excellent tool for constructing models of software complexes is a Petri net.
If we completely switch from the absolute semantic component (multi-colored networks) to the spectrum-like information based on the real program, we can model the pure logic of the program (single-colored networks) using Petri nets.
A Petri net consists of a directed bipartite graph and two different vertices - transitions and positions.
There is a systematic position that forms many positions, usually designated as an ellipse or a circle.
A transition, marked by a square or a simple dash, describes the condition of the change of states.
If the direction of the arc points to the transition, the position is called the input for the actual transition.
If the arc is from a transition to a position, the position is called free for transition [1].
Petri nets are single-color and multi-color.
If the position is the same color in all single-color lines, in a multi-colored position, the important role is considered to be the color.
The color of the position clearly defines the data type and is specific to the position data.
If the position and type of the transition is a bipartite graph at the vertices, and the static structure of the known model is placed, then the concept of a sign is introduced to represent the actual state in which the functional process appears in the network.
The mark position is implemented with the help of special chips that are placed.
A position can have many chips, each chip is associated with the data of the selected position and only of that type.
By placing them in specific positions, the chip's initial network symbol is activated.
Chips change positions on free transitions of the position, because the signal of the wave changes in the result of each simulation clock, network transition.
In order for the transition to work, the condition of doing must be fulfilled, and there must be at least one chip in all its input positions.
The condition may be more difficult to do in multi-color networks. Because the transitions themselves are loaded with pointers consisting of variable constants and functions.
With the help of these pointers, as a result of working on the position from which the transition is fixed to the chip, the data to be transferred to another position is formed.
Techniques for displaying XML documents vary from simple to extremely complex. Method-independent, XML-document design is done with the help of another document, method-independent, with a special style sheet called a style sheet.
The designer determines the rules of their use and styles of formation.
To create a similar style, you can use a style sheet combined with several XML-documents; Conversely, multiple style sheets can be used for a single XML document, creating a different type of document.
Rules and styles are applied to XML document data at the time of delivery to the client and can be used to convert to HTML or any other data format. There are many standards related to XML.
All of them can be combined into three levels.
Only the first level, defined by the W3C, XML "grammar" - the core of XML technology - can be attributed to direct XML.
It covers XML, DTD and XML Schema syntax rules, as well as XML Namespaces and Xpath namespaces.
The XSLT XML-document transformation language can also be attributed to this level.
According to the W3C analysis of 2006 (www iso.ru/journal/articles/489.html), the updated XML language group consists of the following components:
All of these technologies provide the implementation of the main properties of web services, specified in its definition, and are based on the interaction of web services within the framework of service-oriented architecture.
Within the limits of these technologies, there are many questions of the functioning of web services and their practical use.
These are issues of security, reliable messaging and buoyancy, transactional integrity, and business process execution.
To solve these questions, many things have been invented during the competition of technologies and standards.
Therefore, the W3C consortium is to standardize some steps of Web services architecture in this area and to architect Web services in this area.
Separately, an international organization was created to ensure the compatibility of WS-I web services.
It included more than one hundred and fifty leading companies.
The tasks of this organization include popularization and development of interaction standards of web services within the framework of service-oriented architecture [2].
Petri nets, both single-color and multi-color, usually form the logic of the program's work, since the tiles do not spend time making transitions, they instantly fill arcs and positions.
If there is a task to study the development of the process over time, "calculation with a universal gauge" is written on the line, and time is tied to the chip.
The time associated with a specific chip indicates how long the chip has been online.
It is taken as zero before the initial symbol and is incremented with each arc and each pass.
If it is not "delayed", its time value is less than the global clock network.
Multi-color Petri nets are used exclusively for simulating information processes in time input and asynchronous systems.
The formalism of Petri nets distinguishes using two important distinguishable approaches to systems analysis and design.
Petri nets first look at this analysis tool.
A system executed in the form of a UML diagram represents a Petri net.
When considered in general, even the modeling of the network allows to identify defects in the project.
The created project is then defined and modeled.
This cycle can be repeated several times.
The design and process of the concept of the future system characteristics is carried out in terms of Petri nets in the second view.
If necessary, an analyzed version of the network is created and released for storage.
Special studies are conducted to transform the Petri net into a real working system.
Existing environments that support Petri net functionality are allowed to include nets complete with fragments of real software systems.
Progressive composition in distributed information systems actively uses multi-color petri nets to solve the problem of static analysis of web services.
Models are created in various possible petri nets depending on the specifics of the approach to composition, while the composition has a fairly large number of details that are trivial for the purposes of analyzing the actual software implementation of web service versions.
CPN Tools system is used for modeling [3].
In the field of computers, the paradigm of services has undergone several evolutions.
Each step of evolution was determined by the emergence of new technologies and the creation of the appropriate infrastructure.
The essence of any step of evolution is to improve the mechanism of service publication, search for services, execution of queries and delivery of answers.
Web services are the last step in the evolution of the services paradigm.
Internet and Web technologies are the catalysts of this development.
Web services provide an easy and convenient way to deliver, search, query, and publish services.
The idea of SOA, which came with the help of active marketing by the giants of the IT industry, at least makes it possible to create a market for services.
The services market, including the web services market in particular, envisages the existence of several services that provide the same interface and functionality.
Such web services can be understood from one or more suppliers (service providers), and while providing the same functional capabilities, they can be distinguished by non-functional characteristics.
A consumer of web services should use a web service that meets his non-functional and functional requirements, is cost-effective and reliable to use.
The question arises: "How can the interface and the same functional capabilities provide an independent manufacturer?"
The solution to the problem can be seen in the creation of a "unified information space" in various spheres of the economy.
In general, the information space can consist of information objects of many different classes and many types of connections between these information objects.
Each information object is described by a unique identifier that leads to the flow of the object throughout its life, by its properties that change its values according to the size of the execution of certain events, and by belonging to a certain class of objects.
Property values are literals or references to other objects represented by object identifiers.
Therefore, properties can be multi-valued, represented by several values. Some properties of class objects are enumerable derivatives of other objects.
If the meaning of the property contains a reference to another object, then it means that it is possible to talk about the connection between these two objects.
A connection is always directed, and the properties of this connection can be given as properties of the object from which the formal connection originates.
The identifier of an information object is determined by the name of the class and a special literal surrounding this class.
This class is represented as a set of uniform objects.
On the other hand, a class defines the characteristics of objects, and therefore defines the "outline" of the class from which the objects of the corresponding class are born.
The class schema provides the set of properties and calculation methods needed to obtain calculated values.
In order to implement the given operation in the offer of the information space, you can use the description of the objects of the information space based on the XML language.
In the terminology of the XML language, an XML document is usually understood as an information object.
The XML-Schema standard for declaring XML documents in an information structure allows to find a solution to the problem of modeling (or formalization) in the information space at the current level.
The created and agreed XML schemas form a standard environment for creating a contract for the automated interaction of the subjects interacting with everyone in the online mode and the components of the information systems that are continuously in use and have the same high flexibility.
When creating an XML schema, first of all, the vocabulary of the information space is standardized.
This makes it possible to attach real content to interactive systems with defined lexical units that can be solved by all its participants.
In fact, within the framework of the common principles of creating XML-documents, a dictionary of terms of the subject area is defined, which is allowed to create unambiguous messages that can be interpreted by both humans and machines.
The information space is constantly changing, and new areas of work are emerging that affect the functionality of information systems, the understanding of some processes is deepened, and others undergo significant changes.
All this shows that the dictionary of terms of a specific subject area is continuously maintained, therefore the used terminology is changed, the outline of documents is determined, etc.
However, it should be noted that XML allows information to be classified only, semantics remain outside the XML-schema approach.
For the description of the information space, it would be better to add elements of semantics to it.
For this purpose, the W3C consortium developed the Resource Description Framework (RDF) resource description technology.
As the core technology of the Semantic Web (Tim Berners-Lee - Semantic Web Road), the W3C declares RDF as a way of delivering knowledge in a decentralized world.
The main difference between RDF and XML and other technologies is that RDF is designed for knowledge transfer in a distributed world.
Meaning is very important to RDF.
Everyone who works with RDF has a certain meaning — whether it refers to a concrete object or some representation or an abstract concept.
Using the RDF description, it is possible to draw a logical conclusion that links evidence, and to show that all evidences expressed in RDF can be found in large databases of knowledge.
At the same time, a special XML Schema has been created, which defines the vocabulary and structure of an XML document, the descriptive meaning of which is given by an RDF document, as defined for XML, RDF Schema is defined using additional technology.
RDF is convenient for working with distributed knowledge, because applications can combine RDF-files located on the Internet with different people and recognize new objects from the collected documents, even not in one of its parts.
In RDF, there are two processes involved in this,
— firstly, documents using a common language are combined,
secondly, it is allowed to use any language in each of the documents.
One of the main features of RDF is flexibility.
At the same time, it should be said that optimism about RDF is not shared by everyone, and the spread of this technology, currently, has a significant impact on the spread of XML technology.
RDF was granted W3C guarantee status in February 1999, although it was not widely adopted until recently.
Nevertheless, the W3C has linked the future of the web to this language.
According to the W3C, RDF is seen as a very interesting technology and is an important step in the creation of the Semantic Web [4].
The experience of creating a unified information space in the field of energy is very interesting.
The Common Information Model and Generic Interface Definition, implemented through the development of international standards, can be considered as the basis for the successful development of web services along the functional capabilities and the interface.
Development of the standards was initiated by the Electric Power Research Institute (www.epri.com) as part of the Control Center Application Program Interface (SSAPI) research project.
At this time, the standards were adopted by the International Electrotechnical Commission.
The original goal of the CCAPI project is to facilitate the integration of applications developed by different independent suppliers within an energy management system.
Time reduction and the use of a common approach to the description of electric power objects can be achieved through the integration cost and the creation of standard software interfaces, so that the application and the system can exchange information.
Important elements of this research project are Common Information Model and Generic Interface Definition.
Common Information Model (CIM) is an information model of all main objects of electric power enterprises.
The meaning of electric power presents itself and communicates like the attributes of classes of objects.
The accepted standard at this time is IEC 61970 Part 301 Common Information Model (CIM) Base, which describes the main classes of electric power objects.
The Common Information Model allows to build an information model of an energy company, and also describes all objects of the electric power industry and the connections between them.
Based on the obtained information model, it is convenient to create new applications, their implementation and information exchange between systems is easy.
Common Information Model class objects can be used not only within the framework of implementation and preparation of applications of an enterprise, but also beyond it.
CIM is best used when you need to build a general model of the energy system to regulate the exchange of information between standard enterprises.
CIM is a tool for harmonizing data between applications and systems.
Standards for presenting the CIM model in XML (IEC 61970 Part 501 CIM RDF Schema) and standards for exchanging models using XML (IEC 61970 Part 503 CIM XML Model Exchange Format) are being prepared for information exchange.
Finally, objects and all their relationships and object classes of electric power can be loaded into XML.
The application can use integration servers for interaction, message delivery systems, various transport protocols, etc., to exchange XML documents.
If the Common Information Model is a common language by which systems can communicate, then the Generic Interface Definition (GID) standard provides a specification of interfaces that define a common mechanism by which applications can interact and transmit their data.
The GID standard does not impose requirements on the implementation technology of interfaces.
The main thing is to ensure the standard functionality.
In addition, the created interfaces can be the basis for the implementation of any application.
This is the path that all organizations follow for standardization.
For built-in standards, a shell interface with GID and CIM standards facilitates the integration of compatible legacy applications.
Ultimately, an easy-to-use and seamless integration environment is created.
The GID-interface can connect a part of a server-side and a client-side application.
You can get information about the application in which the data is stored using the GID interface.
Making sense of transactions and data from a business perspective is one of the most complex and challenging tasks IT managers face.
On the one hand, the difficulty of semantics existed before the emergence of web services, but the SOA concept brings semantics to the fore.
It should be considered that there is no technology or software capable of truly solving the problem of semantics [5].
PROGRAMS FOR CREATING ELECTRONIC TEXTBOOKS
One of the main requirements for informatization of the educational system is the ability to not only use electronic textbooks in the educational process.
Therefore, this article describes the Autoplay Media Studio programming environment for creating multimedia e-learning tools.
With AutoPlay Media Studio, you can create autoload menus, multimedia business cards, brochures, audio players, slideshows, advertisements, web pages, e-tutorials, resumes, photo albums, interactive presentations, and more.
You can also create audio and video lectures.
Electronic textbooks are effective in training future teachers according to modern requirements.
Arming school teachers with new information technologies is undoubtedly a requirement of today.
Therefore, electronic textbooks are required to be widely used nowadays.
Keywords: Autoplay Media Studio, autoload menus, multimedia business cards, slideshows, photo albums, interactive presentations.
It is known that in the strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020, our President emphasized that e-learning is the priority direction of the radical renewal of education in the direction of further informatization of the entire educational system and mass introduction of e-learning.
In the current period of development, the problem of maximum technologicalization of the teaching process is placed in the forefront of the educational system.
Article 8 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" states that "one of the main tasks of the educational system is to introduce new technologies of education, to inform education, to access international global communication networks" [1].
One of the main requirements for informatization of the educational system is not only the use of electronic textbooks in the educational process, but also its creation and use.
Until now, using only what the teacher says or textbooks in the field of education does not meet the modern requirements.
Therefore, it is impossible to move forward without the use of e-textbooks in the educational system.
As a result, students' interest in the subject increases and it creates a wide opportunity to work creatively.
The electronic textbook for the teacher is an open methodological system that is developed daily.
Each teacher can further improve it by supplementing it with materials in his pedagogical experience. Electronic textbooks play a significant role in rational learning of educational materials.
Theoretical topics are widely explained in electronic textbooks.
If the theoretical materials are supplemented with various pictures and diagrams in the form of graphic illustrations, then the processes of reading, visualizing, understanding and consolidating theoretical knowledge in the brain will be rational.
There is no doubt that the computer tools of teaching contribute to the development of didactics and methodology in a new way.
That is, on the basis of its use in the educational process, the quality of education increases, the costs of organizing and conducting educational activities are reduced, time is saved, it leads to the transfer of management work to creative activities, such as explaining the lesson, monitoring, evaluating, determining the levels of knowledge and business mastery during the teaching process, various illustrations are used.[2]
Currently, there are many programs that create electronic resources.
One of them is the AutoPlay Media Studio 8.0 software package.
In AutoPlay Media Studio 8.0, you can create the following products:
autoload menus, multimedia business cards, brochures, audio players, slide shows, advertisements, web pages, e-books, resumes, photo albums, interactive presentations, and more.
AutoPlay Media Studio can display images, text, video and audio files, flash and web pages and send links to any program.
If we create a new project, i.e. we click the Create a new project button, the following dialog box will open (Figure 1):
The main window of the AutoPlay Media Studio program (Figure 2):
In the upper part of the program window there is a title bar and below it a row of menus.
The name of the project is written in the subject line.
It will be called My Project by tacit agreement.
All commands and functions of the program are grouped in the menu row.
Below the menu bar is the toolbar.
When you go to any object and double-click with the mouse or right-click and select the Properties command, the properties window of that object will appear.
In this window, you can make various settings for the object.
For example, if you want to create a button, click the New Button object command from the toolbar.
Then a window will appear with the properties of the button to be created.
On the Settings tab of this window, you can customize the button's text, type, color, style, font, and other properties.
And on the additional page Attributes, you can change the name, pop-up text (tip), position, size and appearance (visible-hidden or inactive) of the button as you wish.
In the Quick Action section, there are ready-made commands for the action of this button.
You can choose them as you wish.
In the Script section, you can write program codes in the Action Script programming language depending on different events of the button (clicking, right-clicking, pressing Enter, moving the mouse away from the button).
Another handy feature of AutoPlay Media Studio is the help system when using the Action Script language.
In a reference system, a programmer can find out the type of recording of any event, function or program code.
Here, the complete structure of the Action Script language is explained theoretically and with specific examples.
To call the help system, click the Action Help button in the Script section of the properties window that appears when you double-click any object of the AutoPlay Media Studio program.
You can select a specific operator or command from the hierarchy of program codes in the right part of the opened window and see its description and the program code shown as an example.
On the right side of the window, a description of the selected code is displayed on the Overview subpage, and the Examples section contains a set of examples.
And there are three types of translation to *.exe file.
The first one creates a package on the hard disk and places the *.exe file and all the files used in this project (text, video, sound, etc. files).
The second combines all the files used in this project into a single *.exe file.
The third burns the finished project to a CD (autoboot disk)[3].
In this environment, a multimedia electronic learning complex was created on the subject of "Web programming".
The subject "Web programming" is one of the professional subjects conducted in the specialty 5B011100-Informatics.
Figure 3 shows the title page of the appendix.
The title page consists of theory, practice, glossary, videos on each topic and self-test questions.
And the Start/Pause button supports musical accompaniment.
Figure 4 shows the content of the theoretical material, as well as animated images.
The videos are shown in Figure 5.
According to the curriculum, almost all topics of the mentioned subject are covered.
This educational tool includes theoretical materials, practical tasks, self-monitoring questions.
At the same time, audio and video lectures are provided in the multimedia educational tool. Video tutorials are also included.
Lectures are prepared in the form of a slide show.
In general, this program has a lot of features.
In conclusion, during the use of electronic textbooks, students' interest in the lesson increases.
The use of electronic textbooks in the classroom can be considered as a type of new technology of education in providing quality education to the younger generation in accordance with the requirements of the times.
I think that it will give them the opportunity to have a positive effect on their educational activities, to be active, to have quality education, and to have a positive effect on other activities.
EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF INFORMATICS STUDENTS
In the article, independent external control in the form of unified national testing to assess the quality of education of students in Kazakhstan and external assessment of students' academic achievements was carried out in order to determine the level of students' mastery of educational programs after basic secondary education and to assess the quality of educational services.
The level model of designing and creating activity-based test tasks in the assessment of educational achievements of students in informatics was implemented using Bloom's educational goals based on the personal, system-active and subject results of assessing the level of education of students in the universally mandatory standard.
In-depth analysis was carried out to assess the level of education and educational achievement of the student through the effective structure of the teacher offered during the training, more precisely, the test tasks that allow to assess the quality of educational achievements of each level.
In monitoring the knowledge of students in the subject of informatics, the subject's personality and systematic activity aspects were taken into account.
Key words: IT, information-communicative competence, specification, Bloom's taxonomy, cognitive, psychomotor, emotional-value, affective.
Today, IT (information technology) competence is necessary for a specialist in any field.
However, despite the widely recognized importance of IT skills, there is no understanding of how school education contributes to their development.
ICT competences of students are designated by the OECD as basic skills for personal success in the 21st century.
The introduction of digital technologies requires a person not only to have the skills to work with various software applications, but also to have a certain level of culture of using information.
Assessment of informational and communicative competence and literacy of students is directly related to the subject of computer science.
If so, the test tasks for monitoring and quality assessment of students' educational achievements in the subject of computer science should be consistent and timely connected with the tests for assessing informational-communicative competence and literacy.
The educational achievements of students in computer science are reflected in the level of their information-communicative competence and literacy.
In connection with this issue, in 2017, the specification of test tasks in the subject of informatics for the external evaluation of educational achievements in secondary education was approved at the M&M of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Content of test tasks:
computer science test tasks consist of two parts:
basic understanding of informatics, use of information and communication technologies in one's practice.
The difficulty of the test tasks is given at 3 levels: at the first level there are 10 tasks, at the second level there are 6 tasks, at the third level there are 4 tasks, and at the practical level there are 7 tasks (Table 1).
Based on this, let's consider the methods of creating test tasks in computer science.
Example 1. A statement that is either true or false
A) negation
B) story
C) opinion
D) a story
E) narration
{Correct answer}=S
Open test tasks
Example 2. The smallest unit of information is ______.
{Correct answer}=bit
Matching, creating a correct chain, closed test tasks with one or more correct answers depending on the level of difficulty, which assess the system-active result of the level of preparation of students.
Matching test
Matching test tasks are aimed at testing associative knowledge.
This task is designed to determine and accurately find the correspondence of facts, objects and their properties, correspondence of the subject and his actions.
Example 3. Match the unit of measurement and definition of the information
$$$1 bit
$$$2 bytes
$$$3 Kilobytes
$$$4 Megabytes
A) 1024 Kb
B) 1024 Mb
C) the smallest unit of information
D) to 8 bits
E) 1024 Gb
F) 1024 bytes
{Sol}=UNIT OF INFORMATION
{Right}=DEFINITIONS
{ Correct answer }=1C, 2D, 3F,4A
Creating the right chain
Example 4. Place the information reception channels in descending order
A) hearing
B) palpation
C) to see
D) sense of smell
E) sense of taste
{Correct answer}=C, A, D, E, B
Finding excess
Example 5. Eliminate redundant theory related to definitions of information
A) considers information from a quantitative information point of view and considers it as a measure of uncertainty (entropy) of the event.
B) considers information as a property of matter, that is, the emergence of cybernetics, any message is information.
C) information is an active, useful, "working" part of knowledge.
These theories complement each other
D) actively contributing to scientific and technical development, introduction of new information technologies based on computer technology, use of electronic computers
{Correct answer}=D
Closed test tasks
Example 6. Microsoft Assess - name counter (counter) is the content of the field:
A) the number of columns in the table
B) key field
C) cross reference
D) field headings
E) the number of entries in the table
{ Correct answer }=E
In 1956, together with a group of American psychologists and educators, B. Under the leadership of Bloom, the first concept of the taxonomy of learning objectives was created [1].
It covered various areas of students' educational activities: cognitive, psychomotor, emotional-valuable affective.
B. With the help of Bloom's taxonomy, depending on the type of educational activity, it is possible to create an objective diagnostic tool for determining the level of mastery of the educational material, and create tasks with objective diagnostics.
The information obtained with the help of these tasks allows to quickly check the knowledge and skills of students, to identify the causes of difficulties faced by students in the educational process, to develop ways to correct them, and also to predict possible directions of management activities.
The level model of designing and creating activity-based test tasks in the assessment of educational achievements of students in informatics is implemented by means of Bloom's educational goals based on the personal, system-active and subject results of assessing the level of education of students in the universally mandatory standard.
The need to evaluate the educational achievements of students in computer science is planned to participate in the International Computer and Information Literacy Study (ICILS) international research programs that evaluate the computer and information literacy of Kazakh students in the future [2].
Here, the specifics of the test tasks created in this way for the external evaluation of the educational achievements of students in computer science emphasize the need to provide comprehensive training of school students and computer science teachers in the future [3].
In general, the IT skills of students in Kazakhstan have never been evaluated at the national and international level.
Therefore, there is no understanding of the level of formation of computer and information literacy of Kazakhstani students.
OPTIONS, FEATURES AND CRITERIA FOR CHOOSING A SERVER OPERATING SYSTEM
Nowadays, there are many types of server operating systems.
Among them, Windows, Unix, Linux, BSD and many others are leading.
Each server operating system has its own characteristics, advantages and disadvantages.
Choosing the right server operating system for your needs requires extensive research.
For example, Windows operating systems are currently widely used on client devices.
This trend is repeated with Windows server operating systems.
However, as a server operating system, Unix, Linux, BSD systems are also widely used, especially this trend is observed in web servers.
These and other trends need to be identified, their causes found and taken into account.
Accordingly, the choice to be made should be made based on extensive research, i.e., needs and limitations, taking into account advantages, disadvantages, features.
This article describes the options, features and criteria of the selection process.
Keywords: server, server operating system, Windows, Unix, Linux, BSD.
The concept of an operating system is, first of all, to provide its users with a convenient interface, that is, as a top-down view.
In its alternative, bottom-up view, an operating system is designed to manage all parts of a complex system.
In an alternative view, the job of the operating system is to provide an orderly and controlled partition between the various programs competing for CPUs, memories, and input-output devices.
Imagine what would happen if three programs were running on a computer trying to print to the same printer at the same time.
The first few issue drawings may be from Program 1, the next from Program 2, some from Program 3, and so on.
The result will be wrong.
The operating system can order by buffering all printer outputs on disk against potential errors.
After one program finishes, the operating system may copy its output from a disk file stored to the printer, and another program may continue to issue more output, regardless of the lack of output [1].
A server operating system is a type of operating system designed to be installed and used on a server computer.
It is an earlier version of an operating system with features required in a client-server architecture or similar enterprise computing environment [2].
Most of the debate about which server operating system is best for server deployment usually revolves around Linux and Windows, but they are only two of the server-ready operating systems.
Some are open, like Linux, while others are commercial and closed.
Below is a short list of some popular alternatives.
FreeBSD is a free alternative to Unix based on the original BSD, FreeBSD is free and open source and is known for its stability.
OpenBSD - Another BSD variant, OpenBSD is known for its security configuration.
The developers of this operating system are also responsible for OpenSSH and OpenSSL.
Solaris is a commercial version of Unix that uses many of the open source tools available for BSD and Linux.
There is also a free version called OpenSolaris. All Solaris products are now owned by Oracle.
Mac OS X Server - Although often regarded as a client operating system, Mac OS X is a full-fledged version of Unix and includes many of the features of BSD.
Like most commercial Unix offerings, OS X Server is designed to run on Apple hardware, but its open source version, Darwin, is built to run on all other hardware [3].
What operating system is running on virtual machines and physical servers around the world?
It is a Microsoft corporation, as in client operating systems.
A full 87.7% of physical servers and virtual machines in the Spiceworks network run Microsoft Windows Server. The latest types of operating systems use less.
While 23.6% of server operating systems and virtual machines were Windows Server 2012, 45.4% were still running Windows Server 2008 and 17.9% were running Windows Server 2003.
Linux machines hold the majority of the remaining virtual and server machines, with Red Hat Enterprise Linux accounting for 1.2% and all other Linux server operating systems combined for 10.5% of the market share [4].
The Microsoft Windows Server operating system (operating system) is a series of enterprise-level server operating systems designed to share services with multiple users and provide extensive administrative control over data storage, applications, and corporate networks.
A key feature of the Microsoft Windows NT architecture is symmetric multiprocessing, which can perform tasks quickly on machines with multiple processors.
Key features in later versions of Windows Server include automated Active Directory, which manages user data management, security, and shared resources, and allows interaction with other directories, including Server Manager, a utility for managing server roles and making configuration changes to local or remote computers.
Microsoft released its Windows NT operating system in two formats:
one for workstations and one for servers.
A 32-level operating system provides a layer of hardware abstraction that provides system stability by blocking direct access to system hardware.
Companies can use Advanced Server as a domain controller to maintain user and group rights.
In Windows NT 3.5 Server, Microsoft updated the core node features in this server release and added integrated support for TCP/IP and Winsock.
Other networking improvements allowed users to use non-Microsoft operating systems to access files and applications in the domain.
In Windows NT Server 3.51, Microsoft improved this release to increase performance and reduce the amount of memory required.
This server is optimized to serve users quickly with an updated networking stack in the operating system.
In mixed environments with Windows NT and NetWare servers, Microsoft has added additional connectivity support to allow companies to receive services from each with a single credential.
In Windows NT Server 4.0, Microsoft adopted the Windows 95 interface for this release of the server operating system and also used many applications from the client operating system, such as File Explorer.
Microsoft extends the network protocol capabilities in this release to make network resources available to a wider range of Microsoft users outside of Microsoft.
The main features in this release were the ability to use the server as an Internet Information Server and a so-called domain name system server.
This server can manage various functions like hard disk sharing with a function called administrative wizards in the operating system. Windows 2000 introduced Active Directory, a directory service that stores and manages information about network objects, including user data, systems, and services.
Active Directory allows administrators to perform a variety of tasks such as virtual private network configuration, data encryption, and file shares on networked computers.
Microsoft introduced the "Windows Server" brand with the release of Windows Server 2003 and introduced security improvements over Windows 2000.
Microsoft has hardened the web server and disabled many of the default services to reduce the potential for abuse.
Microsoft introduced server roles with this release, which allowed an administrator to assign a specific function to a server, such as a domain controller or DNS server.
Other new features in this release include enhanced encryption functionality, an embedded firewall, and support for larger network address translation.
Windows Server 2003 had four editions:
Standard, Enterprise, Datacenter and Web.
Windows Server 2008 added new features to the server operating system, such as HyperV virtualization software used to add and manage server roles and features on local and remote computers, failsafe clustering, Event Viewer, Server Framework, and the Server Manager Console.
Microsoft has also revised the networking stack and Active Directory to expand Group Policy and identity management capabilities.
Windows Server 2008 came in four versions: Standard, Enterprise, Datacenter, and Web.
Microsoft used its Windows 7 kernel for this server operating system and added improved extensibility and accessibility. Microsoft has enhanced Active Directory for improved user accounts and granular policy management. Additionally, the company has updated Terminal Services functionality and re-integrated it into its remote client services.
New features in this release include BranchCache and DirectAccess, both of which are aimed at improving the performance of remote users.
This server operating system shares some of the administrative and security functions used in the Windows Vista client operating system.
Windows Server 2008 R2 marks the transition from a 32-bit server operating system to a 64-bit version. In Windows Server 2012, Microsoft introduced several cloud-related features to this server OS edition, going so far as to introduce "Cloud OS" to allow organizations to run their services on public or private clouds. The company made significant updates to the operating system's storage infrastructure and the Hyper-V virtualization platform.
New features of note in this release were the Hyper-V Virtual Switch, Hyper-V Replica, Storage Spaces, and the ReFS file system. In other changes with this release, Microsoft changed the default installation setting to Server Core that required administrators to use PowerShell, which introduced 2,300 commands available for administration after this release.
This server version came in four editions: Essentials, Foundation, Standard, and Datacenter. The Standard and Datacenter editions have the same feature set, but the Standard license gives you the right to run two virtual machines, while the Datacenter license gives you the right to run an unlimited number.
Microsoft has made extensive changes across the board in Windows Server 2012 R2, including significant updates to virtualization, storage, networking, information security, and web services. The new revision has new features: a preferred state configuration that PowerShell can use to avoid configuration drift and maintain consistency across an organization's machines, keep storage connected to storage space, increase performance by moving data blocks to solid state at speed, work folders, allow users to share work files and allows you to retrieve and store organization files on personal devices by replicating them to servers in the organization's data center.
In Windows Server 2016, Microsoft moved closer to cloud technology with a number of new features designed to reduce workloads, such as support for Docker containers and improvements to software-defined networking.
Microsoft has debuted Nano Server, designed to increase security by reducing the attack vector.
Microsoft says Nano Server is 93% smaller than a full Windows Server deployment.
Another nod to security is the new Hyper-V shielded VM feature, which uses encryption to prevent data corruption inside the virtual machine.
Network Monitor is an important new networking feature that allows administrators to manage switches, subnets, and other devices on virtual and physical networks.
This server operating system comes in Standard and Datacenter editions.
In previous versions of Windows Server, the Standard and Datacenter editions had the same feature set, but used different license rights and restrictions.
Windows Server 2016, Standard Edition, lacks more advanced virtualization, storage, and networking features [5].
From this we can see that Windows Corporation has many versions to offer in server operating system.
Therefore, the advantages and disadvantages of all options should be considered.
Note that all Windows Server versions prior to 2008 are deprecated and not fully supported.
To summarize our decisions, depending on our needs and limitations, it should be better to choose between 2008 and 2016 versions.
Microsoft Windows and Unix are two major classes of operating systems.
The Unix computer operating system has been around for over 30 years.
Originally, it grew out of the ashes of failed attempts in the early 1960s to develop a robust operating system.
Several employees from Bell Labs did not give up and developed a system that provides a work environment described as "exceptional simplicity, power and elegance".
It is available for free and can therefore be a budget-friendly option for individuals and businesses.
Advantages of Unix: more flexible and can be installed on many different machines including PCs, supercomputers and micro-computers, more stable and does not crash as often as Windows, so requires less administration and maintenance, Unix has greater security than Windows and access capabilities, Unix has much greater computing power than Windows, Unix is the leader in providing services on the Internet, about 90% of the Internet is based on Unix operating systems running Apache, the world's most widely used web server.
Microsoft software updates often require the user to install new or more hardware-required software [6].
Another family of server operating systems is the Linux family of server operating systems.
There is a wide range of series available, either open source or commercially distributed.
The Linux server operating system provides content to client devices.
Accordingly, server operating systems provide tools to create a simple server.
Because servers typically run on the command line, a graphical user interface (GUI) in a Linux server operating system is irrelevant.
Ubuntu is the most popular Linux operating system.
Ubuntu is known for its large number of derivatives and stability.
Ubuntu and its variants offer a user experience.
Ubuntu Server is available in two versions:
LTS and rolling release.
An LTS Ubuntu Server release has a five-year support cycle. Although the support cycle is not five years, the non-LTS version includes 9 months of security and maintenance updates.
Although Ubuntu and Ubuntu Server are very similar, the server offers different features.
In particular, Ubuntu Server offers OpenStack Mitaka, Nginx and LXD.
Such a system is required in server administrations.
Using Ubuntu Server, you can install web servers, use containers, and other features.
Although Red Hat started out as "the little Linux company," its Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) server operating system is now a major force in the data center, the search center.
The world's largest companies choose Linux, Red Hat's innovation and continuous support, including a decade of support for major releases.
RHEL is an affiliate of Fedora, sponsored by Red Hat.
Fedora is updated more frequently than RHEL, but it doesn't offer the stability or length and quality of commercial support that RHEL is known for.
SUSE Linux was released in 1993.
In 2015, the open source version of openSUSE moved to SUSE Linux Enterprise (SLE).
OpenSUSE has two derivatives: Leap and Tumbleweed.
Visibility is a Leap with extended support cycles, and Tumbleweed is a rolling release.
Tumbleweed Linux users have modern packages like Linux kernel and SAMBA so it is good for users.
The Leap version is good for overall stability.
Oracle Linux is a Linux distribution powered by the tech giant Oracle.
It is available in two cores.
One is the Red Hat compatible kernel RHCK.
Oracle Linux is certified to work with many devices from Lenovo, IBM and HP.
Ksplice improves kernel security on Oracle Linux.
There is also support for Oracle, OpenStack, Linux containers, and Docker [7, 8].
Which of the operating systems is better, I would recommend Windows or Linux first.
But it is known that this choice is not easy.
While Linux is efficient, Windows has more features. We can't deny that Microsoft has too much to offer in the PC world.
Only the Windows platform supports Microsoft programs.
Compared to Linux, Microsoft servers are more efficient here.
Windows, however, .NET and ASP Windows server hosting allows you to use Microsoft web development tools such as Visual Interdev and Microsoft FrontPage.
It also offers support for Visual Basic, Microsoft Access, and Microsoft SQL.
Of course, you can use all Microsoft Office services.
If you need to use technologies like ASP or ASP.NET, you have to use Microsoft server operating systems.
If there were no such restrictions, Linux server operating systems could be used.
Most Linux software is open source and free, so you can save a lot of money on software.
Linux supports PHP, MySQL, and Perl.
It supports mSQL, MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.
It also supports many open source technologies and programs.
Therefore, it is possible to set up a modern server with the Linux server operating system without spending a lot of money [9, 10].
In conclusion, the main criteria for choosing a server operating system are:
1. Cost - Just like buying a vehicle, home, or other major expense, there's more to an operating system than just the price tag.
You need the total cost of ownership, licenses.
2. Longevity – a server operating system equipped with security and stability updates over a long period of time can always be in high demand.
3. Support - what information can be found on the forums, that is, on the Internet about this server operating system, what books can be used to facilitate the application process, the answer to this question is also a selection criterion.
This is because if there is little or no support, the information you need may not be found.
4. Security - Operating systems are generally secure, but some are more secure than others.
5. Flexibility - Free and open source server operating systems such as Debian GNU/Linux or FreeBSD are the best option if ultimate customization is desired.
It all depends on the needs.
6. Software availability - If you need a unique software stack for your web applications, this will help you choose the right server operating system.
Some software may be cross-platform, or depend on a single server operating system, such as .NET.
It is quite possible that this selection mark puts an end to the choice of server operating system [11-13].
In conclusion, our needs and limitations should come first during the server operating system selection process.
After that, it is better to consider the quality and size signs, i.e. criteria and make a choice.
From this it can be determined that the process of choosing a server operating system is a process that requires extensive research.
FEATURES OF THE PRACTICE USAGE OF C# OPERATORS
The article describes the features, advantages and possibilities of using operators of the C# language.
The composition of language operators, their syntax and semantics are mostly derived from C++ language.
C# provides a set of operators, which are symbols that indicate what operations (mathematical operations, indexing, function calls, etc.) should be performed on an expression.
It should be noted that the operators used in C# are fully described in the article.
Among them: branching operators (If - conditional operator and switch - selection operator), repetition operators (for loop, while loop, do-while loop), control transfer operators, goto operator, break operator, continue operator, return operator.
Details on operator writing rules and writing formats are provided.
Examples of the use of conditional operators are shown, a list of logical operations used in expressions is presented.
The structure and drawing of the selection operator are described.
In addition, the use of control transfer operators is described in detail.
There are four operators in C# that change the order in which a calculation is performed:
goto is an unconditional transition operator, break is an exit from the loop operator, continue is an operator to move to the next iteration of the loop, return is an operator to return from the function.
Keywords: operator, branching operator, conditional operator, selection operator, logical operations, unconditional transition operator, loop exit operator, iteration operator, function return operator.
A language's operators, along with its types, define the set of problems that can be generated using that language.
The article covers the so-called basic constructs of structured programming - the basic operators of C#.
Structured programming refers to the technology of creating programs that, taking into account some defined rules, reduces the time of creating a program, reduces the number of errors, and also facilitates the possibility of updating the program.
The idea of structured programming was implemented in the development of object-oriented programming technology.
Although C# implements an object-oriented paradigm, the principles of structured programming underlie the coding of every method, every piece of algorithm.
Branching operators.
The if and switch branching statements are used to ensure that different sequences of statements are executed depending on the actual values of the initial data.
The if statement transfers control to one of the two branches of the calculation, and the switch statement to one of the branches of an arbitrary number.
if conditional statement.
The if conditional statement is used to branch the calculation process in two directions.
The structural diagram of the operator is shown in the figure below.
The statement format of the operator is: if ([Boolean expression]) operator1;
[else statement 2;] The logical expression is evaluated first.
If it is true, then the first statement is executed, otherwise the second statement is executed.
After that, control is transferred to the post-contract operator.
If a branch needs to execute multiple statements, they must be enclosed in a block, otherwise the compiler will not understand where the branching ends.
A block can contain any operator, including description and other conditional operators.
Such a construction passes the operator.
This is because the ownership depends on the execution of the contract, either it is executed or it is transferred.
If it is necessary to check several conditions, they are combined with logical conditional operation labels.
For example, the expression in Example 2 is true if a<b and one of the conditions in parentheses is true at the same time.
If we remove the parentheses, then the logical AND is executed first, then the logical NOT.
The operator in Example 3 calculates the largest value of three variables.
As you can see in the example, the compiler uses the else part in the 2nd if keyword.
The construction in Example 4 is similar to the operator in Example 3.
Let's consider an example of using the if conditional statement in a program.
Program code that checks whether the entered number is even:
The Console.ReadLine() function allows input from the keyboard.
Data is entered as a string, since we need numeric data, we convert it to numeric format.
We use the Convert.ToInt32() function for conversion.
If only one command needs to be executed after the if or else, you can omit the curly braces:
In some problems, logical expressions can be complex.
In such cases "!", "||" and logical operations "&&" are used.
An example of a weather advisory program is:
Switch selection operator
The switch statement is intended for branching the calculation process in several directions.
The structural diagram of the operator is shown in the figure below.
Execution of the operator begins with the evaluation of the expression.
The expression type is usually integer, character, or string.
Control is then passed to the first operator in the list defined by the regular expression, to the second operator if it does not satisfy the regular expression, and so on.
If the entered value does not match the regular expression, the operator following the word default is executed [1].
Example 1: A program that displays the name of the date on the screen according to the sequence number entered using the switch statement.
Repetition operators.
Loops serve to repeat a piece of code several times.
There are four types of loop statements in C#: for, while, do-while, foreach.
Each of them consists of some defined sequence of operators.
The part of the program in which the loop is organized is called the loop body.
Other operators are assigned to control the process of repeating the calculation.
They are setting initial values, checking the loop continuation condition and modifying the value of the loop parameter (Figure 2).
One round of the loop is called an iteration.
Initial values are required to assign values to the variables used in the setup before the iteration is performed.
The loop continuation condition is checked in each iteration, either in the "while" loop before the loop body (Fig. 3 a), and in the "until" loop after the loop body (Fig. 3 b).
First, the counter i=0 is created and initialized.
The condition (i<5) is then checked, and if the result is true, the code block is executed in the loop body.
At the end of the iteration, the counter value is changed (incremented by one in the given example).
The condition is then checked again.
The loop terminates when the condition is false.
An example of a for loop where the counter is decremented after each iteration:
The counter can be changed not only to one, but also to several values.
Consider an example program that displays only even numbers (numbers up to 50):
Let's check this loop operator in action. First, the condition is checked, and if the condition is true, the repeating piece of code is executed.
Let's execute the above example, the program code that displays the numbers 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 on the screen using a while loop:
In the body of that function, mark:
operator; should have a design. The goto statement passes control to the specified statement.
A label is a common identifier. Its field of vision (region) is a given function in the body.
The unconditional transition operator can be used in the following two situations:
1. step down (forced) through the text of a program consisting of several nested loops or switches;
2. exit from several places of the function to one place (place);
break statement The break statement provides a jump to a program point inside a loop statement, an if statement, or after a statement containing a break statement in a switch statement [2].
You can exit any loop beforehand using the break statement.
Example program to check if an array contains a number divisible by 13.
When it finds such a number, it does not search further array elements.
Here we use the break operator: The given operator allows us to move to the next iteration without ending the current iteration.
The continue statement, which moves to the next iteration of the loop, skips all remaining statements until the end of the loop body and passes control to the beginning of the next iteration [3].
We close the main loop of the example using the continue statement:
return The return statement in a function ends the execution of the function and transfers control to the point where it was called. Operator type: return [expression];
OVERVIEW OF THE STATE OF CLIENT-SERVER TECHNOLOGY TRAINING
To increase the level of competitiveness, increasing the potential labor force through quality education and training is becoming an urgent issue.
Integration of client-server technology into educational content in the training of specialists in the field of information technology is one of the directions emerging in accordance with public demand.
Educational platforms, pedagogical methods and technologies need to be researched in order to improve the quality of the content of special courses taught in higher educational institutions and contribute to the increase in the quality of education.
The article reviews the works of our country's and foreign scientists who conducted research on the organization and training of client-server technology.
In our study, the situation of implementation of client-server technology in the educational content of the higher educational institution was analyzed.
As a result, forecasts for the development of the implementation of client-server technology in the educational content of the higher educational institution, teaching methods for the formation of practical skills of students are proposed.
Keywords: higher educational institution, educational content, client-server technology.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev "Orientation to the Future:
In the article "spiritual revival", it is stated that the development of education, services, intellectual products or quality labor resources to increase the competitiveness of not only an individual, but also the entire population is a guarantee of the success of the future nation [1].
The renewal of educational content at all levels of the educational process, while preserving the features of human and national values, on the basis of integration with the world's modern achievements in the field of education, science, technology and technology, arises from the demand of the society.
Client-server technology has become one of the most important solutions during the search for effective ways of processing information due to a sharp increase in the flow of information.
Separation of calculations between the client and the server, execution of only data processing requests on the server is the priority, which allows to involve all hardware resources of the system in information processing.
During the educational process, special subjects for teaching client-server technology are organized.
Various learning technologies are offered to achieve the goal of implementing client-server technology according to the learning level.
Educational technologies are characterized by a variety of teaching methods, tools, and platforms.
This causes difficulty in choosing an effective, specific condition for the teacher introducing the client-server technology to the educational content.
Let's analyze the experiences of domestic and foreign scientists in the direction of client-server technology, distributed database processing to determine a certain core of client-server technology implementation (Table 1).
The reviewed works mainly cover the issues of implementation of client-server technology in a higher educational institution.
In addition to teaching client-server technology, preparation of methodological and didactic complexes necessary for educational organizations is considered.
Many authors were guided by creative, experiential, project and group learning technologies.
The results of the conducted analysis cover the topics of learning client-server technology, knowing the theory of database design, features of the SQL language used in all database management systems, configuring the server, and using client applications using various programming environments.
The Microsoft SQL Server environment is mainly used as a training platform.
Supporting the use of this platform in the educational process, we note that the following issues should be taken into account.
Difficulty in teaching client-server technology is hardware and software requirements, network and server setup stages.
In order to fully implement the client-server technology, it is necessary to effectively organize the ability of client applications to access the server remotely, network settings and protocol assignment.
It is also necessary to take into account the use of the latest versions of programs.
For example, if MS SQL Server 2016 allows the R language for statistical analysis to be used as an open source, MS SQL Server 2017 is integrated with Python. This allows you to take advantage of parallel computing using stored procedures.
You can load Python code like a T-SQL stored procedure into a SQL Server database.
These features can be used to solve machine learning and predictive analytics problems.
The SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) environment is used to configure and manage all components of SQL Server.
For educational use, you can use SSMS Express for Server Express from the free distribution.
At the same time, we recommend using cloud solutions and virtualization methods in teaching client-server technology.
By installing a virtual machine, we can use the features of two operating systems on one computer.
You can configure the server computer in the host operating system and test the remote access connection by placing the client applications in the virtual machine.
Another way is to use cloud solutions.
In this case, students use only one computer connected to the Internet.
Data processing and calculations are performed on a server in the cloud.
We can also organize access to the server created in the cloud through the SSMS environment.
Using the last feature, students can have the opportunity to work on the server from anywhere.
EFFECTIVENESS OF USING MAPLE COMPUTER MATHEMATICS PROGRAM IN TEACHING "INTEGRAL EQUATIONS" COURSE
The main goal of education on the basis of modern computer literacy is to update the content of knowledge, as well as to increase the effectiveness of the use of teaching methods and various tools.
The method of using new information technology plays an important role in the realization of this goal.
The article examines the importance and effectiveness of using the Maple computer mathematics program during the teaching of the "Integral Equations" course to future mathematics teachers.
Taking into account the application potential of the "Integral Equations" course, analytically creating solutions of integral equations, obtaining a graphical representation of solutions, etc.
The possibilities of using the Maple computer program are defined.
The use of the Maple computer program provides conditions for continuous and complete monitoring of the educational process, development of information search ability, not only increasing cognitive activity of students, but also formation of a thinking system, creative work.
It is proved by concrete examples that the Maple computer mathematics program is a necessary tool for organizing the teaching process of the course "Integral Equations".
Key words: integral equations, modern information technology, Maple computer program, organization of education.
In the state program for the development of education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019, provision of quality education is indicated as one of the main goals.
The use of information and communication technologies in improving the education system, i.e. increasing the quality of education, teaching and management, is defined as a new approach [1].
It is known that the use of modern computer programs in the organization of the educational process gives positive results.
Students' ability to work on their own and interest in the subject increases, creating favorable conditions for the development of their creativity, the formation of a learning culture, and independent work.
In addition, it encourages students to master modern information technologies, improve computer literacy, participate in the creation and transformation of educational materials, and effectively use them.
Nowadays, the existence of software products makes it possible to organize the teaching process in a new way.
Modern application software equipment is starting to be introduced in educational institutions.
The use of these programs affects the teacher's professional development potential.
According to the research of psychologists, 70% of information is received by the human brain through the eyes.
Therefore, special computer programs should be used in classes to improve the quality of students' mastery of the subject [2].
Computer mathematics programs appeared in the 60s of the last century and began to be used.
First calculations, typical algebraic transformations:
simplifying the expression, applying operations to polynomials, creating solutions of linear and non-linear equations, and producing analytical (symbolic) results, etc. it is worth mentioning that it has opportunities.
Nowadays, computer programs contain self-executing high-level mathematical methods, and each successive update is aimed at solving more complex problems than the previous ones.
The use of information technologies in the educational system, the purpose, content, principles, and development of pedagogical foundations of training students of pedagogical and scientific fields of mathematics using information technologies by foreign and domestic scientists V.P. Bespalko, V.M. Monakhov, A.P. Ershov, I. V. Robert, V. P. Dyakonov, B. B. Baimukhanov, S. K. Abdibekova, G. S. Bazarbaeva, M. S. Malibekova, A. Z. Tursynbaev, B. D. Sydykov, S. M. Kenesbaev, A.K. Moshkalov and others. considered in research works [3-6].
Methodological foundations of teaching differential equations, mathematical analysis, mathematical physics, mathematical modeling and numerical methods at Pedagogical University PMAslanov, G.I. Bavrin, A.V. Sinchukov, V.S. Kornilov, I.A. Kuznetsov, H.A. Herbekov , J.S. Suleymenov, B.A. Naimanov, J.M. Nurmukhamedov, O.C. Satybaldiev and others. considered in research works [7-9].
In a number of simple and independently derived differential equations, integral equations are widely used in mathematical modeling of various natural phenomena.
Teaching the "Integral Equations" course to students of mathematics specialty in higher educational institutions, along with basic mathematical education, takes a special place in strengthening its applied direction, making critical analyzes, and developing functional literacy.
Therefore, teaching integral equations is important in improving the general mathematical knowledge of future mathematics teachers.
It was determined that the following topics of the "Integral Equations" course content can be taught using the Maple computer program:
Fredholm, Volterra's Relation between Integral Equations and Differential Equations;
Solving Volterra's integral equations of the 2nd order by the chain approximation method and the concept of a resolvent;
Volterra's 1st-order integral equation and Euler's integrals;
Laplace integral transform;
Abel's integral equation; Solving Fredholm's 2nd-order equation by the chain approximation method; the core is solving simple integral equations by reducing them to a system of algebraic equations;
Hammerstein equation;
characteristic numbers and eigenfunctions of integral equations;
Fredholm's theorems for Fredholm's 2nd-order integral equation and symmetric integral equations; Solving 2nd and 1st generation Volterra equations and systems of equations with the difference of core arguments by the Laplace integral transformation method;
reduction of parametric boundary value problems to integral equations, singular integral equations; solving integral equations by the chain approximation method;
integro-differential equations;
system of first-order integrodifferential equations; consider the solution of the nonlinear integral equation [10].
Let's see how some of the mentioned topics are implemented in the Maple computer program by giving examples [11].
1) We obtain Fredholm's non-homogeneous integral analytical solution of the second type.
That is, we entered the given integral equation and got its solution using the intsolve integral calculation command.
We received a ready-made answer to find the solution of the equation, but we did not know anything about the method of finding its solution.
If we find the solution using intsolve before we know how to find it, we lose confidence in the correctness of the answer. Needless to say, the mathematical command of the computer gives its results only when used appropriately. Knowing the effectiveness of the intsolve command, we can save time and avoid the difficulties and mistakes in large-scale calculations.
It is known that the graph of a function is a straight line.
We will say the same about the following integral equations.
2) Volterra's integral function of the first form is a solution.
3) Non-homogeneous Volterra integral of the following second kind
4) Let's calculate Volterra's integral equations of the second type using the Neumann method using the Maple computer program:
The features and similarities of the found solution are presented in Figures 2, 3.
We show that when finding the solution of the equation using the Neumann method, the solution is given in the form of a series, and it can be graphically explained that as the number of terms increases, it approaches the solution.
That is, it is not difficult to understand that the solution is the same as the solution given in Problem 4 and the features of its graphs.
Based on our experience in learning how to solve integral equations with the help of the Maple computer program, we summarize the given examples as follows:
- solutions of some types of integral equations can be obtained analytically by transformation;
- allows to get a graphic image of decisions;
- it is possible to increase the accuracy of the solution of integral equations when numerical values are required;
- helps to get visual information about the functions given in the equation and to draw conclusions about the possible regions of the function and the equation;
- it is possible to quickly check when solutions are standard functions;
- knowing about the theory of integral equations, helps to get clear information in practice;
- we save time on simple but large-scale works, etc.
In the course of "Integral Equations" course, when it is necessary to solve problems, it can be considered effective to use Maple computer mathematical programs.
- students' interest in the subject increases, enthusiasm awakens;
- trains to think quickly and make decisions, the quality of education increases;
- students are able to work independently;
- computer literacy of specialists is increased.
We believe that the use of the Maple computer mathematical program in teaching the course "Integral Equations" is a highly effective pedagogical technology that forms the thinking ability of students and develops computer learning.
USING FUNCTIONS AND PROCEDURES IN PROGRAMMING
Recently, the interest in programming has increased dramatically.
This is due to the introduction and development of information and communication technologies in everyday life.
If a person works with a computer, sooner or later he will have a desire for a program, and sometimes it is necessary.
If the problem-solving algorithm has fragments that can be used multiple times in several places of the program, then such fragments can be divided into program units (procedures or functions).
This article provides examples of subroutines using the Delphi language.
Here are the procedures:
a main procedure that calls other procedures, a procedure that implements certain design tasks and event processing procedures.
The general type of the procedure and the procedural functions are considered as the established procedure.
Keywords: classification, variable, parameters, instruction, subroutine, coefficient, constants, sequence of operators.
The advantages of using a subroutine are obvious.
First, the program has no duplicate code, making it more efficient to create, modify, and adjust the program, which reduces labor.
Imagine you had to change the explanatory text in the output of a program that converts weight from pounds to kilograms.
In the program, you need to review all the texts of non-subroutine users and make the necessary changes.
If the program uses a subroutine, then changes should be made only in the subroutine text.
Secondly, the reliability of the program increases. Note that subroutines should not only be used to avoid code duplication.
It is convenient to divide a large task into several parts and fix each task as a separate subroutine. In this case, the "readability" of the program, the process of significant postponement, will improve somewhat. A subroutine is a small program in which part of the general tasks are solved.
There are two types of subroutines in Delphi - function and procedure.
Each subroutine has its own name that the program uses to call the subroutine.
A function differs from a procedure in that the function depends on its name and value, so it can be used, for example, as an operand, in an assignment as a pointer.
By default, a subroutine has no parameters.
Real and official parameters are distinguished.
The parameters that represent the function declaration are called -specific.
Parameters are called precision in the procedure's calling directive.
The parameter is used:
 To send data to the internal program;
 To extract from the subroutine result.
In general, when expressing a procedure as a concrete parameter, its type must match the corresponding concrete parameter type.
So let's look at the functions and procedures individually.
A function is a program, a sequence of tasks with a name.
The process of passing function instructions is called a function call or function conversion.
The process of moving from a function instruction to a program instruction that calls a function is called a return from a function.
A general form of a function conversion instruction is shown as:
Variable := Function (Parameters);
here:
 Variable - the name of the variable, where it is necessary to assign a value to the calculated function;
 Function - the name of the function, in which it is necessary to assign a value to an unstable variable;
 Parameters is a list of formal parameters that are applied to the value of the calculated function.
Variables or constants are used as parameters.
It is worth paying attention to:
 each function returns a value of a certain type, so the type of the variable that includes the value of the function must correspond to the type of the function;
 The type and number of parameters for each specific function are strictly defined.
A function declaration generally looks like this:
 function —Delphi language keyword, which refers to the instruction extension that implements the programmer's function.
 Name is the name of the function.
Used to switch from a function instruction to a program.
 A parameter is a variable, a value used to calculate its value.
 The difference between a normal variable and a parameter is that it begins with the word var in the function header and is not declared in the declaration section of the variable.
As a result of calling the function from the main program during the program operation, the parameter gets a real value;
 Type is the type value in which the function returns to the program that called itself.
Note that the pointer chain that creates a function ends with a pointer that assigns the value of the function name to itself.
The type of the expression defining the function value must match the type of the function specified in its declaration.
Listing 1 shows the isint and isFloat functions as an example. The Isint function checks whether the corresponding key pressed while entering an integer in the edit field is a valid character. Numbers, <Enter> and < Backspace > keys are expected as valid.
The IsFloat function solves a similar problem, but for fractional numbers. The IsFloat function has two parameters:
code when a key is pressed and string characters entered in the editing field.
Function usage.
If you are going to use your own function in your program, then in the simple state, before the program that uses this function, insert its declarations into the program text.
The following program (the text is shown in Listing 2, and the dialog box is shown in Figure 1) calculates the price of a trip to the country house.
Required data in the program: distance, cost of one liter of fuel and fuel consumption per 100 km.
One-line editors Edit1, Edit2 and Edit3 are used to enter this data.
The IsFioat function is used to filter the characters entered in the OnKeyPress field of the function processing event, only allowed characters are visible in the input field during program operation.
A procedure is another type of subroutine. Basically, a subroutine, like a procedure, is executed in two cases:
 When the subroutine does not return any data to the main program. For example, it draws a graph in a dialog window;
 A subroutine returns more than one value to the program that called it.
For example, a subroutine that solves quadratic equations must return two fractional numbers - root equations to the program that called it.
A general type of procedure notification is:
 procedure — means the next message of the procedure;
 name — procedure name, used to call the procedure;
 parameter K is used as a formal parameter, variable, procedure directive.
The word var before the parameter name is optional.
However, if it is present, it means that a variable must actually be a parameter in the procedure call directive.
Procedure parameters are used to send data to the procedure and to return data from the procedure to the calling program.
Often, while working on a program, the programmer notices that the sequence of some instruction appears several times in different parts of the program.
For example, Listing 3 provides a program to convert pounds to kilograms.
Note that the instruction provides input of initial data from editing fields, calculation and output of the result (in the listing they are marked with background) is available in the calculation button in the processing event of this procedure, as well as in OnKeyPress in the Editl field in the processing event of the procedure.
You can avoid code duplication in the program.
To do this, you must pass instructions to the subroutine that appear several times in the program, and replace the pointer given as a subroutine in the subroutine call instruction.
Listing 4 shows a pound-to-kilogram conversion program, where the output is implemented as a function of inputting data, calculating the result integrated into a subroutine, and outputting it.
Listing 5 shows the solution of a quadratic equation as an example of the procedure (which is generally written as: ah2 + bx+ c = 0).
The procedure has six parameters, the first three are used to send output data to the procedure - equation coefficients;
The parameters xi and x2 are used to return the result - the roots of the equation;
The ok parameter is used to send information that a solution is available.
Using the procedure. A master procedure must be placed in the implementation section, before the program that uses this procedure.
Parameter list — actual parameters separated by periods.
Actual parameters can be a variable, an expression of the appropriate type, or a constant, depending on the superficial parameter specification in the procedure declaration.
For example, the way to solve the quadratic equations in the above procedure might be:
If the parameter name is preceded by the word var when describing the procedure, then when calling the procedure, the corresponding parameter must be replaced by a variable in the main program.
Using an expression or constant is considered an error, and the compiler will issue the following message:
Types of actual and formal var parameters must be identical (the actual parameter type must correspond to the superficial parameter type).
Listing 6 shows a program for solving a quadratic equation using the SqRoot procedure. The program window is shown in Figure 2.
In conclusion, we have considered several examples of the use of functions and procedures in program creation.
Users have full opportunity to try out the code of the programs.
That is, the explanations are shown in the listings.
DEVELOPMENT OF CREATIVE SKILLS OF TEACHERS BASED ON COMPOSITION OF PROJECT WORKS IN ROBOTICS COURSE TEACHING
The article deals with the issues of teaching the robotics course based on the design of project works and developing the creativity of teachers.
The teaching problems of the training course for pedagogic personnel "Fundamentals of Robotics" for teachers of informatics, mathematics and physics subjects of secondary educational organizations are considered.
Ways to develop the creativity of teachers based on the design of project works are considered in the training course for pedagogic personnel "Fundamentals of Robotics".
In the course of teaching the robotics course, the teacher proves the necessity of designing project works for the complete acquisition of knowledge and development of creativity.
During the Basics of Robotics course, practical work is carried out using advanced LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3 educational constructors and Arduino controllers, which allow students to increase their creativity and potential.
Keywords: LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3, Arduino, STEM, robotics, project work.
The 21st century is characterized by the rapid development of science and technology, and the world is moving towards an automated system.
It is an unselfish truth that national competitiveness is primarily determined by its level of education.
The 21st century requires a new philosophy of education, new information, communication and pedagogical technologies [1]
At present, in the advanced developed countries, this problem has found a positive solution and is showing exemplary results.
The goal of our country is to enter the ranks of 30 developed countries.
On this issue, one of the main factors in the message of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan on January 31, 2017 should be the massive introduction of elements of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
These are automation, robotics, artificial intelligence, "big data" exchange, and other tasks.[2]
That is, he drew attention to the need to develop robotics and engineering in the country. That is why the introduction of robotics into the educational process is one of the most urgent issues.
One of the first steps in the introduction of robotics in the field of education is the training of school teachers in professional development courses.
On this issue, "Orleu" BAO JSC has been improving the qualifications of pedagogical staff based on the organization of "Fundamentals of Robotics" courses for school teachers.
The purpose of this course is to increase the professional competence of teaching staff on the development of information and technical literacy of school teachers in the field of using robotics tools.
Currently, within the framework of the institute, the courses "Robotics Basics" are held for teachers of computer science, mathematics and physics subjects of secondary educational organizations.
During the course, students conducted experiments using advanced LEGO® MINDSTORMS® EV3 educational constructors and Arduino controllers, which allowed students to increase their creativity and potential.
The students put their theoretical knowledge into practice and learned to design and program various robots and Arduino-based devices.
At the end of the course, in order to summarize the knowledge gained during the course, each student defends their individual project work.
In the course of project work, students prove mathematical laws and calculations and physical laws with the help of robots.
That is, in the course of the course, students are not limited to learning how to build and program robots, but are given opportunities to develop their creative abilities.
At the same time, our goal is not only to support the improvement of qualifications during the course, but also to implement the knowledge gained by teachers in their own practice after the course and to organize joint work during the development of project work.
As a result, some complex project works continue after the course and have positive results.
The project work, recognized as the most advanced, was presented to the public on the eve of the grand opening of the "Teacher's House", a branch of "Orleu" BAO" JSC in Almaty, with the participation of the executive secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Aryn Amangeldiuly, and had a positive result.
This project work began during the course, and in order to improve the project, in the post-course periods, the author of the project worked together with the teacher of general education school #152 Akhmetov Begaly Tokbergenovich.
This project is based on the development of an electric motorized wheelchair "Robo-wheelchair" in order to support blind people in the society.
Currently, the project work has been fully proven, and work is being carried out on the issue of production.
That is, organization of project work in the course of teaching robotics proves that it has a high impact on strengthening the teacher's creativity and full mastery of knowledge.
Robotics contributes to the development of students' critical thinking and the ability to solve practical tasks, and it is also a very attractive science that inspires young people to innovate through science, technology, physics, mathematics, and allows them to use their skills to solve today's problems, to think creatively to analyze the situation. Because robotics it is necessary to use knowledge from a number of general education subjects in learning the basics.
And this means not only knowing and doing, but also researching and inventing is important.
Major academic fields such as science, mathematics, technology and engineering must be developed simultaneously.
This integrated education system can be called STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education system.
STEM is an integrated approach to learning in which academic science and technology concepts are explored in a real-life context.
The goal of such an approach is to establish strong connections between school, society, work and the whole world that contribute to the development of STEM-literacy and competitiveness in the world economy (Tsupros, 2009) [3].
Active development of STEM education has begun in Kazakhstan.
This is evidenced by the transition to the updated content of school education in the context of STEM within the framework of the state program for the development of education and science for 2016-2019.
Therefore, specialists of the future need comprehensive training and knowledge obtained from various educational fields of natural sciences, engineering, technologies and mathematics.
The future, hope and faith of the state is to take great responsibility for the education of the young generation, and the service of a teacher who is suitable for the needs of the times will advance the development of the society.
The most important thing for the society is faith and hope for the future of the country.
In order for that support to be strong and reliable, it is a requirement of the time to train competitive specialists.
ROBOTICS IN EDUCATION AS A NECESSARY ELEMENT OF TRAINING SPECIALISTS FOR THE FUTURE DIGITAL INDUSTRY
The article highlights the importance of introducing educational robotics into the learning process in secondary schools and higher educational institutions.
The potential of the developing new discipline as a powerful means of training graduates due to the widespread introduction of robots into life in a high-tech environment has been determined.
International experience in the field of robotics in education was discussed.
At the same time, it was concluded that it is possible and appropriate to implement teaching with a competence approach on the basis of robotics in education.
Robotics in education is a necessary element in preparing the rising generation to meet the challenges of the digital industry of the future.
Today, robotics is being transformed into an integrated curriculum that provides expanded opportunities for intensive intelligent development taught in any direction, including primarily natural sciences and mathematics, programming and design.
Keywords: digitization, robotics in education; STEM; STEAM; LEGO, programming, design.
In the message of the President to the people of Kazakhstan on January 31, 2017, he announced the Third Revival, which is based on digitization.
The development of the digital industry provides the impetus for all other industries.
In addition, the President emphasized the need to grow new industries created during the use of digital technologies.
The digital economy requires the existence of digital skills of the population to allow them to use their fruits and results [1].
At present, robotics provides strong trends in science, technology and education.
Along with nanotechnology, biotechnology, information and cognitive technologies, robotic technology is a part of the science of the future, a transition to new and updated resources and technologies created with the help of modern technological achievements.
The development of these areas will allow the states to take appropriate measures that will soon push them to the leading position in the world.
The development of robotics is connected with the solution of some urgent problems facing humanity, for example, how to overcome the consequences of the rapid and rapid aging of the population in developed countries, the increase of internationally competitive manufactured goods and services, and the general increase in labor productivity on a global scale.
According to leading specialists, after the introduction of robots capable of interacting with people and including the development of artificial intelligence, labor productivity will increase so that the entire system of world production can be changed in a real way.
Rising unemployment, especially in the blue-collar professions, and remanufacturing of goods as a result of these changes are seen as threats associated with robotization.
The weak preparation of some countries for such changes in the world market may result in negative effects for their economy.
Today, we can talk about the third generation of intelligent robots that not only perform physical and moving functions, but also perform some elements of its intelligent actions, support decision-making, and implement social functions.
By improving their autonomous navigation and control systems in non-deterministic environments (air, underwater, space), special attention is paid to the development of the human-machine interaction interface, the safe interaction of robots with humans and other objects, and the creation of a natural language for controlling and teaching robots.
The system of compensating human capabilities is rapidly developing, including intelligent prostheses;
New tools are emerging for medical purposes, including micro- and nanobots [2].
Service robotics also shows significant growth. According to the International Federation of Robotics (IFR) 2016, the largest sales of service robots were realized in areas such as logistics, military, robots for outdoor work, medical field, mobile platform and assembly.
A country-wide robotization density index was used to estimate the scale of robot use.
It gives the ratio of the number of multifunctional robots to 10,000 workers employed in a certain industry.
The difference between countries on this indicator is very high.
The International Federation of Robotics cites the following data for 2016 [3, 4]:
on average, 69 industrial robots corresponded to 10,000 workers in the world.
The ranking was led by South Korea, which corresponds to 531 industrial robots (programmed manipulators) per 10,000 workers.
The list was followed by Singapore (398), Japan (305), Germany (301) and Taiwan (190).
The average indicator for Europe is equal to 92, in North and South America - 86, in Asia - 57, in Russia - 1.
There are no statistics for Kazakhstan yet.
The rapidly developing technology of industrial robotics requires a qualified response from the educational system for training future specialists for scientific and technical creativity, working with information technologies (IT), modeling, and project work.
Recently, due to the high recognition potential of robotic techniques, robotic techniques are being proposed as important components of the educational process in many countries of the world.
The term "robotics in education" is gradually being formed, and is also understood as an innovative educational technology in this direction.
The practice of many educational systems in the world now considers robotics not only as an addition, but also as a means of developing the intelligence of students, being integrated into the general environment and the content of professional education.
Let's give some examples.
STEM and STEAM education (Science + Technology + Engineering + Art + Math, http://stemtosteam.org/) can be included among the number of important trends in the educational system implemented by introducing robotics.
They give attention to the implementation of interdisciplinary education, aimed at successfully overcoming the scattered teaching of academic subjects, the highest priority of synthesis of various natural-scientific, mathematical, engineering and informational subjects.
The indicated approach, as a rule, implements the use of knowledge of sciences in various fields, the implementation of completed projects, the ability to demonstrate design skills, the ability to use the knowledge of sciences in various fields, the implementation of completed projects, and the ability to demonstrate design skills.
Schoolchildren are often engaged in creating their own robots from ready-made boxes of special designers and writing programs to control them.
Projects include technical tasks as well as important social context (robot-researcher, robot-assistant, etc.).
They are mainly combined with the curriculum materials of some studied subjects.
Innovative development of the country by forming interdisciplinary competences of schoolchildren in the field of science, mathematics, programming, forecasting, design, as well as team work is the main goal of the transition to the STEAM education trend.
All these should be the basis for creating a new level of creative human resources. The schools of the Russian Federation have a lot of experience.
In this country, a lot is being done to actively introduce elements of robotics into the content of teaching such subjects as mathematics, computer science, physics, and technology.
The innovative educational center (http://fgos-igra.rf) is active in introducing elements of robotics in the educational processes of computer science, physics, mathematics, biology, and technology classes of secondary schools, as well as in extracurricular services, including project competitions. various materials are provided on the Internet pages.
In Germany, robotics classes are included in the curriculum of some schools.
Students attend a new lesson twice a week.
In addition, there is also an extracurricular competition activity for which schoolchildren are additionally trained.
In Belarus and Ukraine, the teaching of robotics is carried out only within the framework of the additional education system.
And it covers only elementary and middle school students.
The issue of systematic introduction of robotics to the educational program has not yet been included.
President of the Kazakh Association of Automation and Robotics V. According to Turekhanov, children who learn to learn the elements of robotics are ready for direct employment, just as they are ready to study at higher educational institutions.
This is because at this stage they face certain design problems and programming problems.
Their thinking patterns will be very necessary in the future [5].
In Kazakhstan schools, this is a mixed method, today it is taught in hundreds of republican schools and higher educational institutions and includes several applied subjects.
There are 372 robotics circles for students on the general basis of programming within robotics.
Mathematics and physics, computer science and drawing - these and other sciences must be mastered by future robot builders, and for Kazakhstani boys and girls who are interested in a special profession, the opportunity to apply the knowledge in practice is important.
On the initiative of the Ministry of Education and Science, some educational institutions of the country were equipped with new LEGO Education sets.
Based on this, the most daring thoughts in life:
real robots with many functions and abilities can be modeled and programmed.
These are just the first steps in this exciting and promising direction.
It cannot be said that the term "robotic technology in education" is fully established and understandable for the pedagogical system in Kazakhstan.
In our country, in the system of additional education, it is discussed in the circle of scientific and technical creativity using robotic constructors, and it is rarely matched with the process of teaching in schools.
In the modern understanding, robotics in education is considered as a new interdisciplinary direction in the education of schoolchildren and students, as a technology that affects the integration of knowledge in programming, IT, mathematics, physics, design and allows to stimulate students in the process of creative, educational and research activity, solve the actual technical problems of young people. , including developing the formation of practical decision-making skills of the context with potential meaning [6, 7].
It is important to understand that robotics can serve different purposes at different levels of education.
Therefore, according to the age characteristics of students, different types of constructors are offered, conducting various activities, teaching robotics in special circles, optional and elective courses.
Design and basic technical modeling are considered in elementary schools.
For this purpose, Lego constructor of any modification and "WeDo" constructor, which can create 12 models according to the instructions, are used.
By programming through a computer, a teenager may be able to make models with his mind.
Just like the level of modeling that introduces complex programming languages in elementary school, the level of programming robots becomes more complex.
The Mindstorms NXT Lego set is recommended as the basic equipment.
Different experiences can be made in different disciplines using Vernier sensors.
In higher schools, teaching of programming will be deepened and the level of complexity of designing robotic technical complexes will increase.
One of the only options for complex development in the development of robotics is the mastering of machines provided with digital programming control.
LabVIEW (Laboratory Virtual Instrumentation Engineering Workbench), which can be learned by high school students, is an example of one such programming language.
Of course, in addition to the main lessons, various extracurricular activities are conducted, which allow you to show interest in this direction.
These are robotics competitions, round tables, quizzes, competitions on designing and programming robots, master classes, as well as regularly held hackathons and Olympiads, where young talents compete with each other and each competes with their own experience.
From our point of view, the possibilities and forms of studying robotics are still not complete.
The future of its further development in the past is very great.
It is quite realistic that the use of robots will be necessary during the teaching of all subjects in the school course.
The development of science is important for society at all times.
Children, in particular, created a model of an automated device with robots.
Theoretical calculations with sent and rounded sets are different from what is actually done, physical experiment is more interesting and more important than any informational modeling and calculations, which is the foundation of any scientist and engineer.
The experience of teachers who use robotic technology in the educational process allows us to conclude that the following positive aspects can be distinguished in such education:
 to immediately understand the meaning of teaching how schoolchildren can use the knowledge they are getting in the process of solving some real-life problems.
It is no secret that many students, even students, believe that mathematical formulas "live" only on paper.
The task of designing and controlling a robot helps them understand how the subjects they study can help them in life;
 accurate understanding of the interrelationship of knowledge obtained from various academic subjects, development of creative thinking;
 implementation of practical-oriented training, encouragement of schoolchildren to research and project work;
 to be able to form thoughts until they are actually implemented, until the final result is obtained;
 development of students' communication skills and ability to work in a team, replacing them with results;
 increase students' motivation to work with robotic constructors, which are interesting and motivating to students in an environment created with the help of team teaching methodology with active, playful, problem-oriented, competitive elements related to the above aspects.
Despite the advantages of robotics, there are challenges in implementing these educational robotics approaches.
This is primarily a question of what time resources the described approach will be implemented.
The second problem is the lack of a material base, in particular, the lack of a sufficient number of robotic constructors in all schools.
Of course, it is necessary to reconsider the educational programs, as well as to increase the intensity of the teaching process due to the integration and strengthening of interdisciplinary connections.
In conclusion, the implementation of a competence approach is possible and appropriate for the purpose of robotics in education.
The introduction of the content of the methodology and tools of robotics in the relevant education into the curricula and programs of the Kazakhstani general environment, as well as higher education, is an issue that should be evaluated by the scientific and pedagogical community in the near future.
International pedagogic experience, movement related to competition, attention of business in preparing schoolchildren and students in the field of robotics reliably prove the usefulness and future of such a step.
Robotics in education is one of the powerful tools to help prepare the growing generation to solve the problems of the future and new digital society.
There are only some elements of robotics implementation in the educational process for higher and secondary special education.
However, working together with students allows employers to quickly see and observe the future development of all stages of education in the specified direction.
In our understanding, robotics in education in the context of higher education is the main connection in the use of a certain type of developmental educational equipment, its introduction into the educational process with special methods.
It is often carried out on the basis of interdisciplinary tasks of a technical nature aimed at mastering the integrated knowledge of students within the framework of natural science and engineering subjects.
In addition, it is carried out on the basis of competencies related to information technologies, programming, designing, and teamwork, which are necessary in the modern high-tech world. Robotics in education has its own characteristics for each level of education.
If the game activity with design and competition elements is a priority for schoolchildren, then the practical application of the knowledge acquired in secondary and higher educational institutions, their verification, research services, and participation in international competitions are prioritized.
In conclusion, it should be said that robotics will be transformed into an integrated subject that provides expanded opportunities for intensive intelligent development taught in any direction, including, first of all, natural sciences and mathematical sciences, programming and design.
In addition, social and personal competence of the future specialist is developed, such as creativity, critical thinking, ability to make quick decisions in changing situations, teamwork, responsibility and individual initiative, ability to share work results, patience and freedom to win.
Many times checking the performance of robots in changing conditions teaches schoolchildren and students to see the rules, conduct experiments, and select ten options.
It requires perseverance, the implementation of whole projects and their perfect execution.
In particular, these competencies and personality quality of school graduates and graduates of secondary special and higher educational institutions will determine the success of our country in the new digital Kazakhstan.
Here, in addition to highly qualified personnel, a special place is allocated to intelligent robots, which are widely supported in all fields.
DIGITALIZATION OF THE GEOMETRIC HERITAGE OF AL-FARABI
The article deals with issues that need to be implemented within the framework of the "Digital Kazakhstan" state program.
One of the issues addressed within the framework of this program is the translation of important elements of cultural heritage into electronic format, i.e. digitization.
One of our cultural heritage is the mathematical heritage of our grandfather Al Farabi.
All Al-Farabi's geometrical constructions are presented in a sequence of specific operations, which simplifies construction with computer programs and allows to increase efficiency and quality.
There is a growing interest in specially designed interactive geometric environments that allow for the creation of qualitative and stereometric drawings for use in geometry education.
The article describes the geometric heritage of the scientist and how it is possible to process them according to modern educational requirements with the help of information technologies, introduce those values to the students, thereby improving the students' geometric knowledge.
Keywords: information technology, digitization, geogebra, geometry.
"Digital Kazakhstan" of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to accelerate the rate of development of the republic's economy in the medium term and improve the quality of life of the population due to the use of digital technologies, as well as in the long term to implement the conditions for moving the economy of Kazakhstan to a fundamentally new development trajectory that ensures the creation of the digital economy of the future state program was adopted.
One of the objectives of this program is to increase digital literacy in secondary, technical, professional and higher education.
The program envisages the implementation of a set of interrelated measures necessary to achieve the main ambitious goals, such as creating an innovative economy, entering the ranks of 30 developed countries by 2050, and updating society and production so as not to be left out of the modern technological world.
Achieving this goal requires the unity and mobilization of the entire society and making breakthroughs in a short period of time.
Taking into account the constant emergence of new technologies, innovative methods and tools in the field of ICT, if necessary, additional initiatives will be implemented within the Program.
One of these measures is the transition to the Digital State.
In this regard, within the framework of this program, it is planned to create a network of virtual museums and transfer all museum collections, records of concerts, plays, important elements of tangible and intangible historical and cultural heritage to electronic format.
Access to information can be provided by creating a new unified electronic portal, which will allow to translate the cultural life of the country into one popular resource.
This is the most accessible format for promoting the culture and art of Kazakhstan in the world space and making it widely popular [1].
The issues mentioned here clearly indicate that our country cannot survive without the history of our country.
We do not know how many cultural heritages we have missed.
Kazakh is a wise nation, rich in poets, singers, singers, musicians, and craftsmen.
"A word that is not listened to is an orphan" is a noble people who did not say a single word in vain.
In that case, we need to preserve our value without losing a single word of the cultural heritage that our ancestors spoke and wrote down.
If we look at our grandfather Al-Farabi himself, it is known that despite his many works, none of his works were found in our country, and his current heritage was found in foreign libraries by scientists who researched our ancestor's heritage and brought to our country.
Now it is our duty to preserve those heritages.
It is necessary not only to preserve, but also to create electronic versions of those heritages with the help of modern educational tools, in a word, to digitize them and leave them as a legacy for future generations. For the first time, Farabi's work was translated into the Kazakh language, he searched for Farabi's works in the libraries of the countries of the world, and professor A. Mashanov succeeded, in 1968 he found Farabi's cemetery in the city of Sham (Damascus) and took a picture of it.
Well-known Kazakh scientist A. Kobesov, a researcher of the history of the East and the history of mathematics, studied the mathematical heritage of the scientist and wrote the works "Mathematical heritage of Al-Farabi", "Mathematical treatises", "Addition to "Ptolemy's Almagest".
This work was highly appreciated by foreign Farabists-scientists studying Farabi's works.
In the works of a scientist, the following plays an important role in the practical activity of a person:
land surveying, architecture, engineering, geodesy, etc. There are algorithms for solving many geometric problems using a compass and a ruler.
Many of al-Farabi's geometrical constructions are dedicated to the work of his predecessors.
Most of them are found in the ancient Greeks.
Geometric construction problems are still of great interest today, because today construction, architecture, construction of various tools and many other practical tasks are based on geometric constructions.
This topic is presented in Al-Farabi's work "The Book of Spiritual Manipulations and Natural Secrets about the Mysteries of Geometric Figures" [2].
Such problems have a great influence on the mathematical development of students.
In designing the content of the geometry course, they are an important element of teaching geometry, an integral part of which constitutes one content line.
The problem setting and solving methods here encourage students to apply their knowledge of geometry in practice, contribute to the development of their broad thinking.
In addition, they develop students' research skills and develop research skills.
Al-Farabi's chain of construction algorithms can be used as a content material for high school computer science courses [3].
Such problems have a great impact on the development of students' mathematical knowledge.
In designing the content of the geometry course, they are an important element of teaching geometry, an integral part of which constitutes one content line.
The problem setting and solving methods here encourage students to apply their knowledge of geometry in practice, contribute to the development of their broad thinking.
In addition, they develop students' research skills and develop research skills.
Al-Farabi's chain of construction algorithms can be used as a content material for high school computer science courses.
In principle, it will be more effective to solve such problems using the capabilities of modern information and communication technology tools during the study of the algorithm section, as well as during the study of application software.
In the process of solving such problems, the teacher can effectively form the elements of algorithmic culture in them by systematically demanding the exact sequence of steps from the students.
Since these tasks are interdisciplinary in nature, one of the most effective forms of education can be used in extracurricular activities combined with computer science and geometry classes.
As mentioned above, all geometrical constructions of Al-Farabi are presented through a sequence of specific operations, which makes it easier to build with computer programs, and allows to increase the efficiency and quality.
There is a growing interest in specially designed interactive geometric environments that allow for the creation of qualitative and stereometric drawings for use in geometry education.
The most popular of them is the GeoGebra program.
GeoGebra is a very convenient tool for geometric modeling and solving projective geometry problems [4].
All types of constructions, high-quality planimetric and stereometric drawings can be drawn there.
Here you can create structures with points, vectors, lines, conic intersections, mathematical functions, and then create animations by changing them dynamically.
Inside, we can enter in 3D format, and then manipulate them dynamically, keeping the original values unchanged, with the ability to enter equations and manage coordinates.
Now let's look at ways to solve Al-Farabi's problems using this program.
One of the simplest problems of the scientist is the problem "On dividing a triangle into three equal parts".
He said: "...If we want to divide the triangle ABC into equal thirds by two lines parallel to the line BC, then in the direction of the line AC, mark the line AD equal to one-third of AC, draw the line AE equal to two-thirds of AC, and to each of the lines DC and CE we draw semicircles and erect AGH perpendicular to the line AC, mark the line AF equal to the line AG and the line AJ equal to the line AN.
We draw the lines IC and FL parallel to the line BC, then we get the triangle ABC divided into three equal parts:
These are ALF, FLKJ and VKJS[2]," he says. The sequence of necessary actions is specified in the text.
By doing them in order, the given triangle can be divided into three equal parts (Figure 1):
It follows that the area of triangle AFL is half the area of triangle AJK, and the area of triangle AJK is two-thirds of the area of triangle ABC. Then, the area of the figure BCJK is equal to one third of the area of the triangle ABC. Students will verify this proof by themselves.
The problem of constructing a right triangle inside an isosceles quadrilateral is also very interesting, it is not difficult to construct it using a protractor, but it is not easy to construct it using a compass and a ruler.
Al-Farabi showed the following algorithm for solving the problem using a compass and a regular ruler.
Algorithm of solution: "...About constructing a triangle inside an equilateral quadrilateral.
If he says how to construct an isosceles triangle inside an isosceles quadrilateral, then we construct a square ABCD, extend the line DC to the point E and make CE equal to CD.
We construct a semicircle on the line ED, take the point D as the center and mark the point G at the distance DC.
Further, we take the point E as the center and mark the point H at the distance EG, construct AF equal to DH, connect B to F, B to H, F to H.
We get an isosceles triangle BFH inscribed in the square ABCD."
This algorithm, like all other algorithms of the scientist, can be easily implemented in the GeoGebra environment described above (Figure 2).
In addition, it is possible to repeat the construction on each of the vertices of the square, making a total of four triangles equal to the isosceles triangle found inside.
Al-Farabi describes the algorithm for constructing a regular octagon based on the trisection of an angle:
"If he wants to build nine angles equal to the side and equal angles to the line AB, then let's draw a circle CDE of any size with point G as the center, mark the point C on it and take it as the center, and mark the points E and D at a half-diameter distance from the circle.
Let's divide the arc DE into three equal parts [Figure 3].
Let EH be one such arc.
Draw the lines EG, EH and HG, and between the lines EG and HG we draw the line FI equal to the line AB and parallel to the line EN.
Let us draw circles intersecting at point K at a distance FG, taking points A and B as centers.
Taking the point K as the center, we draw the circle ABL at a distance of KA.
Let's divide the arc ABL into eight equal parts and connect their dividing points with chords. On the line AB, nine equilateral and equiangular angles appear."[3, p. 113-114].
It is not difficult to draw this algorithm with mathematical accuracy in the GeoGebra environment (Figure 3).
According to this algorithm, the computer drawing created in the GeoGebra environment not only looks beautiful, but is also mathematically accurate.
It is possible to save the drawing and change it visually.
In addition, we can easily measure drawing elements, change their colors and decorate them with texts.
In this environment, the student should not only draw the given drawings, but also consider the proofs of algorithms in combination with the knowledge of modern school geometry.
As mentioned above, the right triangle is approximated by al-Farabi's algorithm. Al-Farabi's approximation is very small, so it is difficult to see in the drawing, but we can see it by mathematical reasoning. A scientist determines the sides of a regular hexagon by trisecting an arc equal to one third of the circle.
If we set sin(β/3)=x, then sin(β)=3∙x4∙x3, where β=α/2, α=1200. From this, the value of the walls is determined with an accuracy of about a thousand and is equal to 2∙R∙sin(3600/18)≈R∙0.684.
The approximation of the construction can be seen here [5].
Al Farabi also includes three-dimensional figures in his paintings.
For example, in the report below, the algorithm for dividing the sphere into four equal parts to form an equilateral triangle was considered.
If he asks how to divide the sphere into four equal parts so that it is an equilateral and equilateral triangle, then we draw three circles: these circles are ABCD, BEDG and CEAG.
Then we divide the sphere into eight equal triangles; these triangles are ABE, AED, ADG, AGB, CBE, CED, CDG, and CGB.
Through the center of one of the triangles and through each corner of this triangle, we draw arcs of large circles and continue them to the center of the touching triangles.
If for each triangle we draw arcs from this center to the two remaining corners and continue them to the centers of the [touching] triangles, then we divide the sphere into four equal parts, so that we have an equilateral and equilateral triangle:
these triangles are IHF, IKH and FKH and FIK (Figure 4).
Such reports increase students' interest in the subject. This not only deepens the learning of the curriculum, but also contributes a lot to the development of their thinking abilities and the formation of key competencies.
Knowing the knowledge and capabilities of the given program environment necessary for the implementation of the geometric problems of Al-Farabi under consideration will not only consolidate the previously acquired knowledge of geometry and informatics, but will also make it possible to use it in practice and form informational competences.
Solving and proving these problems requires a lot of information and knowledge in the field of geometry, it creates an opportunity for students to gain deep knowledge, consolidate, summarize and systematize the acquired theoretical knowledge.
Introduction to such problems, the various methods shown by the scientist in solving problems, raises the theoretical and practical level of teaching geometry.
Such values should be preserved, processed and digitized.
Using modern information technologies, using these values in the process of education through digitalization, will definitely help the future generation to use the acquired knowledge in their own experiences, in providing quality education.
ON THE NEED TO TRAIN FUTURE TEACHERS TO CREATE AND USE DIGITAL EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES
This article discusses the issues that determine the need to prepare future school teachers to teach using modern information communication tools, to be able to use them skillfully in their professional activities, as well as the need to create specialists who can create digital teaching resources as needed and make changes to existing tools. reported about.
At the same time, it was mentioned that among the requirements for future and current teachers, it is necessary to have a high level of business ability to widely use the tools of information and communication technologies in pedagogical activity among the requirements for the professional training of school teachers.
And for its implementation, it was said that it is possible as a result of making additions to the teaching content of higher educational institutions that train all teachers or teacher retraining institutions and educational institutions.
Keywords: future teacher, information and communication technology, digital educational resources, E-Learning system.
In 2011-2020, in accordance with the state program for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan, it is planned to introduce the E-Learning electronic training system in the country.
In 2015, the goal is to cover 50 percent of educational organizations with e-learning, and to reach 90 percent by 2020.
Also, interactive and intellectual digital educational resources will be developed for each subject taught in basic and vocational high school.
Supplementing secondary, technical and professional educational organizations with digital educational content (any information resource - text, image, music, video, sound, etc.)
it is planned to fully provide the content of Internet resources) in open access" [1].
Legal-normative, material-technical, scientific-methodical and information provision for the development of these directions is one of the main directions of training of pedagogical specialists.
In the period of rapid development of modern information technologies, the effectiveness of the educational process of secondary educational institutions is directly related to the professional training of the future teacher.
In addition, the use of information and communication technology (ICT) for the development of a competitive national education system and its opportunities for continuity in the world educational environment is of primary importance.
That is why the formation of business skills to widely use information and communication technologies in pedagogical activity is one of the requirements for professional training of school teachers.
In this regard, preparing future teachers in higher educational institutions not only to use digital educational resources in the pedagogical process, but also to create them is an urgent issue.
In the period of rapid development of modern information technologies, the effectiveness of the educational process of secondary educational institutions is directly related to the professional training of the future teacher.
That is why the formation of business skills to widely use information and communication technologies in pedagogical activity is one of the requirements for professional training of school teachers.
In this regard, preparing future teachers in higher educational institutions not only to use information technologies and software tools in the pedagogical process, but also to create these tools is an urgent issue.
The processes of informing the modern society and all forms of the education system closely related to them are characterized by the processes of mastering and mass distribution of new information and ICT.
Such technologies are actively used in new systems of education to establish a relationship between a teacher and a student and to exchange information.
A modern teacher should not only master ICT knowledge, but also be a specialist who can use it in his professional activities.
One of the main types of ICT tools used in open and other forms of education is electronic teaching tools.
The content of digital educational resources is called one of the main components of the information system of e-learning, because there is no learning without content.
After all, educational materials of e-learning:
from digital educational resources, e-books, methodological tools, presentation materials, audio and video clips, etc. is formed.
Digital educational resources are electronic tools with systematized material that provide students and students with creative and active learning of knowledge in accordance with the science and practice of the field of education.
Digital educational resources should be at a high level in terms of informational completeness, quality of methodological tools, quality of technological implementation, visibility, logic and connection of thought, both artistically and in terms of performance. Educational materials in digital educational resources should not lose their didactic properties in the paper version [3].
There is a 43-year history of systematic research in the field of digital tools supporting the general education process. During this period, the current digital educational resources in the country are e-education publications, e-learning tools, etc. have been considered and studied as electronic educational resources.
In foreign countries, the creation of methodological and software-informational tools is considered expensive work.
The reason is that this case involves highly scientific and high-ranking specialists: a psychologist, a teacher, a computer designer, etc. requires joint work.
Despite this, educational institutions and research centers in the country finance projects for the creation of a computer education system and conduct their own research in connection with it.
The concept of an educational electronic publication comes from the concept of a traditional electronic software tool that has evolved over the past 43 years.
To create the first electronic programming learning tools, programming technology was used in the programming language known to everyone at that time.
As a rule, the role of the programmer was held by university students or graduate students. From the beginning, the creation and use of digital educational resources (DREs) has developed in two main directions.
In the first direction, automated training systems for various subjects will be created.
Such systems often correspond to shells: the core of automated learning systems is an authoring system that allows teachers to enter their own learning materials into the database and program its learning algorithms using a special language or tools.
And the second direction is to create and implement the methodology and guidelines used for self-learning of these created learning systems [4].
Due to the wide spread of information and computing tools in the society, it has a significant influence on the organization of the educational process, as well as on changing the content of education.
The main subject of reconstructions in the educational system is the teacher.
Today's school needs teachers with developed creativity, well-versed in new pedagogical technologies, and professional skills. He should be able to be a teacher-psychologist and a technologist who organizes the educational process at the same time.
If we analyze the problems of teaching taking into account the capabilities of the computer, psychological-pedagogical methodological problems arise from the basic teaching theory of psychology and pedagogy.
Teaching subjects in secondary schools using digital educational resources leads to the revival of many pedagogical researches and the creation of scientific and methodological works. That is, it requires education based on the intellectual features of modern education.
New technology is a tool that empowers the teacher, but it cannot replace the teacher.
Computer capabilities should be analyzed from the point of view of psychology and didactics and should be used in accordance with pedagogical requirements.
It is better not to chase the external effect, but to pay more attention to the internal effectiveness of the training program, not only external.
The abundance of computer graphic capabilities in digital educational resources opens the way to enrich the lecture experiment with colorful pictures, drawings, tables, which can also be used for calculation terms.
The computer can be used by the teacher as a visual tool to provide additional materials, information from various references.
The introduction of electronic techniques in the collection of necessary information saves time, increases the completeness of information in the period under consideration, creates an opportunity to form the skills of working with electronic devices as part of the information and reference system.
At the same time, digital educational resources with the help of new information technology tools lead to the development of the student's creative and intellectual abilities, and the formation of skills to use their knowledge in life.
The use of didactic capabilities of computer technology for pedagogical purposes has a positive effect on determining the content of knowledge, improving teaching forms and methods.
Such opportunities can be provided by existing and emerging digital educational resources, i.e. electronic teaching tools.
Therefore, working with such educational tools forms a new worldview of students:
- consciously plans his actions;
- can build models of phenomena, etc.
The possibility of information and communication technologies has started to increase dramatically, with the emergence of the Internet global network and its penetration into all spheres of human activity, including the sphere of education.
The use of electronic teaching tools and the Internet has had a significant impact on the current education system and culture of Kazakhstan, and has made it possible to create conditions for the development of innovative teaching methods.
The implementation of information and communication technologies in many subjects in education raises the following problems, such as providing programs and supplementing the content of digital educational resources used in the field of education.
The activities and researches conducted on these issues form the theory of the creation and use of such tools and the necessary regulatory documents. One of the regulatory documents in this field is the State Standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan RK ST 34.0172005- "Information technologies.
Electronic edition", "Electronic educational edition" [5].
According to the rules stated in it: electronic publication: a set of digital, textual, graphic, audio, video and other information with software management tools and documentation and located on any electronic information carrier or published on computer networks.
E-learning tool: e-learning with a special degree issued by a state institution for a given type of publication, which contains the most important parts of the training course, as well as a collection of reports, handbooks, encyclopedias, maps, atlases, instructions for conducting educational experiences, methodological instructions for the preparation of practicums, course and diploma theses publication [5].
As experience shows, some of the modern subject teachers, while actively using ICT in their professional activities, cannot stay away from the creation of digital educational resources for individual teaching [2].
That's why, despite the fact that the majority of CBRD on subjects should be created by professional teams, it is known that the authors of some of these tools are the school teachers themselves, who introduce their own tools in the teaching of the subject.
Another individual problem that needs to be addressed is the disconnection of digital educational resources used in teaching the subject.
In solving these problems, having the necessary professional knowledge and skills of the creators of digital educational resources, including, of course, school teachers, would have made it possible in many ways.
So, no matter what role a teacher plays in the process of creating digital educational resources for subjects, he should have the knowledge and skills to be able to solve the problems necessary to create the CBR at a sufficiently professional level.
However, in the current system of training future subject teachers in pedagogical higher educational institutions, future teachers are left out of learning the basics of creating digital educational resources for subjects. All of this indicates the need to teach future pedagogues, i.e. subject teachers, how to create and use CBRN.
The increase in the number of digital resources used in the teaching of certain subjects taught at school and their non-compliance with the requirements is the frequency of the participation of subject teachers in the creation of digital educational resources, which is, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the methodological training of future teachers in the creation and use of quality CBRD to increase the effectiveness of teaching schoolchildren. creates a contradiction between the lack of a system.
And in order to implement it, it is necessary to emphasize that it is possible only as a result of additions to the teaching content of all teacher training institutions or teacher retraining institutions and educational institutions, that is, as a result of the introduction of a special training course.
The content of the special training course to be introduced should be based on the course "Creation and use of electronic learning tools and Internet resources", which has been studied and introduced into the teaching process at our university, and is being implemented in the training of "Informatics" teachers.
The reason is that this special course was introduced several years ago by Professor E.Y. to the content of training specialists in "informatics" at our university. It was introduced at the initiative of Bidaybekov and is currently being taught in all pedagogical higher educational institutions of our republic.
This included course is limited to the training of computer science teachers, and the requirements of the ELearning electronic learning system are the same for teachers of all subjects. Therefore, training future teachers to be able to create and use individual digital educational resources in the field of their own training is the need of the hour.
And the main goal of teaching a special course is to teach the teacher of the subject to create a CBR and use it in his professional activity to ensure that students master the hierarchical system of logically interconnected scientific concepts of this subject at a level sufficient to implement algorithmic and heuristic cognitive activities.
As a result of preparation, students should know the new technologies of making and using CBRN, be able to set and solve tasks in the production of CBRN, be able to conduct the first examination of the quality of CBRN, have an understanding of the development process of new technologies of CBRN assembly by subject.
In conclusion, if we prepare future school teachers specifically for the creation and use of digital educational resources, then, firstly, they will be able to teach using modern information communication tools, and secondly, they will be able to skillfully use them in their professional and domestic activities, as well as the digitalization of education. it is quite possible to become a specialist who can create resources as needed and make changes to existing tools.
Of course, if we rely on teaching methods, in order to implement it, it is necessary to make additions to the teaching content of higher educational institutions that train teachers of all subjects or teacher retraining institutions and educational institutions, and to introduce special training courses.
And training of future teachers to create and use digital educational resources in separate subjects requires separate research.
At the same time, future and current teachers should be included in the requirements for their professional training to have a high level of business ability to widely use information and communication technology tools for pedagogical activity.
AUTOMATION OF STUDENTS' KNOWLEDGE TESTING IS AN ELEMENT OF BUILDING A DIGITAL UNIVERSITY
In the article, the automated system of knowledge testing is considered as one of the factors of creating a digital university.
Despite the large number of software products that allow the automation of the educational testing process, some of them are not without their shortcomings.
Therefore, structuring a new tool aimed at specific users is an important and urgent issue.
This article presents the requirements for creating an automated system of knowledge testing.
Implementation of such a system allows to save the time of the teacher and student, and also creates conditions for the most accurate assessment of knowledge and serves as one of the components of the digital university.
Keywords: test, system automation, computer, tool, digital university, knowledge testing, interface.
The emergence of digital technologies allows to provide services of higher quality than those currently implemented.
In accordance with the new technological innovations and the future modernization and development program of the country, the digitization system is being maintained at its level in all spheres.
Having become one of the most effective tools of the consumer and user, digital devices are becoming a constant, hard-working device of everyone in the world today.
The state program "Digital Kazakhstan" envisages the need to digitize the activities of state bodies[1].
The image activity of state bodies is being automated, but there are still areas of activity that are not fully covered by digitization.
One of them is the creation of a digital university.
Currently, one of the factors of forming a digital university in a number of higher educational institutions is the automation of the testing system for determining the level of education of students.
Although the digitization of the currently planned testing process requires some difficulties, it has been proved that a quality result is needed in the end.
Digitization of the testing process has several significant differences.
In particular, the digitalization of the testing process requires the creation of an automated system of testing the level of education of students.
Problems of digitalization and automated system design (consistency, content of project activity at a certain stage, etc.) K. Filatov, E. Bidaybekov, B. Bostanov and others. considered in works [2].
At the same time, creation of software environments (K.G. Krechetnikov), multifunctional learning - information tools (S.V. Panyukova), computerized educational tools (I. G. Zakharova, L. Kh. Zainutdinova, E. G. Skibitsky, V. A. Starodubtsev, V.F. Sholokhovich), professionally oriented subject software didactic based on computer training systems (A.I. Bashmakov, I.A. Bashmakov), computer and telecommunication technologies (P.I. Obraztsov, I.V. Robert) it is stated that the presence of an automated testing system is mandatory in the works on the creation of complexes [3].
The main role in creating an automated system is given to the programmer.
Based on the preliminary plan, stages of the automated system construction are determined (they are also called stages of project life cycles).
The automated system assembly includes the following technological sequence:
 methodological department (creating a concept, designing and preparing primary materials);
 creating an interface - engineering and ergonomic department;
 shell filling, work testing and debugging - production department.
 introduction of the automated system to the training process - information environment department.
 Interaction between the teacher and the student - organizational-methodical part.
Testing is a goal-oriented process, which is the same for all observers, is conducted under conditions of strict control, and allows to objectively measure the learning characteristics of the pedagogical process.
Testing differs from other methods in its accuracy, simplicity, adequacy, and the possibility of automation [4].
Testing is the most objective way of assessment, and responds to a number of principles:
 application of a single test series to a large number of subjects;
 static processing of results;
 distinguishing evaluation standards.
There are two main approaches in the field of pedagogical testing:
 regulatory-oriented;
 criterion-oriented. For the first approach, it is typical to compare individual results with the results of other learners.
This tester is dedicated to solving tasks related to comparison, ranking and selection of educational achievements.
Based on the second approach, the individual results of the test are compared with the total amount of knowledge that students should acquire during the given period of training.
These tests are used to solve problems related to the assessment of the amount of educational material learned by the examinee.
Educational testing system is dedicated to test creation and editing, testing and results analysis.
At the current level of development of information technologies, it is very convenient to use such a system, besides, it is necessary to improve the teaching process in a practical way.
Improvement of the training process is carried out according to various criteria.
An important component of the educational process is the preparation of an objective methodology for monitoring knowledge.
The main services of monitoring the quality of education:  control allows to see the error, to evaluate the result of training, to correct the gaps in knowledge;
 well-organized knowledge control helps to strive for goal-oriented work on error correction;
There are also problems of objectivity in the evaluation of education.
The same price of different teachers may correspond to different levels of education.
This problem can be solved by testing.
The following are the advantages of evaluating knowledge using the computer-based testing method:
 efficiency of test results processing;
 Individuality of the learning process of students;
 Many dismissals of teachers.
Nevertheless, it is known that writing the test and creating tasks is not an easy task for the teachers.
Taking into account the time limit required to perform the test, it is necessary to evaluate the quality of the test in terms of the direction of the course being studied and the relevance to the capabilities of the students.
The software-computing complex is dedicated to the automation of testing the knowledge of students on the subjects of the curriculum of the subject.
The system must work on the main network of the Internet.
In the organizational-methodological section, the software computer system can be divided into two large subsystems:
"Learner" and "Teacher".
The right of access to the automation system of knowledge testing of learners can take the value "Learner", "Teacher", "Administrator".
After registering a new user, after verifying the information, each registered user will have access to one of the listed values.
The teacher places the tests in accordance with the curriculum and opens access to students.
Learners have the right to pass a competitive test to familiarize themselves with the system, as well as to pass the entrance test and study the theoretical part of the subject.
The administrator has the ability to enter and change all parts of the system, disable and create test and theory blocks, approve and check the registration of students.
To enter the user, at the beginning of working with the system, a personal name and password are assigned to the user.
The user allows the "Student" to solve the test, familiarize himself with the theoretical material, and also leave a message to the "Teacher" and "administrator".
The subsystem to be prepared should provide the user with all the possibilities:
 passing the competition test for learning to work with the system;  choosing the subject and topic for which the test is planned;
 introduction to the theoretical block on the given topic;
 passing the test based on the permission granted in the "Teacher" subsystem;
 receiving a report on the results of the passed test;
 Exchange messages with the teacher;
The system must comply with special requirements: Security must be open only to registered users;
Access - access to system features should be possible locally as well as over the Internet.
Reliability - It is necessary to ensure the storage and availability of information about passing the test to students;
Guidance on the use of the system should be divided into instructions for the Teacher and Learners.
Instructions for learners should include explanations for registration in the system and a description of the work in it.
The system to be prepared is dedicated to the automation of students' knowledge testing.
The software computer system can be divided into two major subsystems: "Learner" and "Teacher".
The right of access to the automation system of knowledge testing of learners can take the value "Learner", "Teacher", "Administrator".
After registering a new user, after verifying the information, each registered user will have access to one of the listed values.
The teacher arranges the openings according to the curriculum and opens access to the students.
Learners have the right to pass a competitive test to familiarize themselves with the system, as well as to pass the entrance test and study the theoretical part of the subject.
The administrator has the ability to enter and change all parts of the system, disable and create test and theory blocks, approve and check the registration of learners.
To enter the user, at the beginning of working with the system, a personal name and password are assigned to the user.
The user "Student" is given the opportunity to solve the test, get acquainted with the theoretical material, and also to leave a message to the "Teacher" and "Administrator".
The subsystem to be prepared should provide the user with all the possibilities:
 passing the competition test for learning to work with the system;
 choosing the subject and topic for which the test is planned;
   introduction to the theoretical block on the given topic;
 pass the test based on the permission granted in the "Teacher" subsystem;
 receiving a report on the results of the passed test;
 Exchange messages with the teacher;
In conclusion, an automated testing system can be proposed as a factor in creating a Digital University, and it should meet the following specific requirements:
 security - access to system services is open only to registered users;
 access - access to system features is possible locally, as well as via the Internet:
 reliability - ensuring the preservation and availability of information about passing the test to students;
 guidance on the use of the system is divided into instructions for the Teacher and Students;
 instructions for students include explanations on registration in the system and description of work in it.
DEVELOPING DIGITAL LITERACY OF PRIMARY SCHOOL STUDENTS
The article deals with the development of digital literacy of students in primary school.
In today's world, mastery of digital technologies is on a par with qualities such as writing and reading skills.
Humanity, having effectively mastered technologies and information, learns a new way of thinking, and also looks at the assessment of the problem that has arisen and organizes its activities differently.
After entering school, the child enters the world of knowledge, where it is necessary to discover the unknown, to look for non-standard ways of solving activities.
Formation of a creative personality is the main goal of the updated educational program.
Its implementation creates the need to develop digital literacy in primary school.
Digital literacy is a set of knowledge, skills and habits necessary for safe and effective use of digital technologies and Internet resources necessary for living in the modern world.
There is a difference between computer and digital literacy. The structural components of digital literacy have been identified.
Keywords: information, digital technologies, digital literacy, computer literacy, digital competence, digital safety, digital consumption, primary school.
In recent years, computerization and automation have not only become widespread in all spheres of human activity, but have risen to a new qualitative level, and digital technologies are used in all areas of interpersonal, professional activity, education, etc. in use.
"Development of human capital" is one of the five main directions of the state program "Digital Kazakhstan" approved in 2017, which will be implemented in the period of 2018-2022.
The direction of human capital development is aimed at creating a creative society to ensure the transition to a new situation - the knowledge economy, forming digital skills and literacy that allow humanity to use the fruits of digital technologies [1].
The concept of digital literacy appeared due to the increasing use of digital devices in the daily life of mankind.
So, the question arises, what is the difference between the concepts of digital and computer literacy?
Computer literacy is the ability and skill to work with a computer, manage files and packages, know the basics of computer science, and be aware of basic office programs [2].
Digital literacy is the set of knowledge, skills and habits necessary for safe and effective use of digital technologies and Internet resources necessary for living in the modern world.
Digital literacy is a student's ability to use digital devices to their advantage.
Nowadays, it is possible to use a variety of online services, with friends, using modern and ever-changing technical devices: smartphone, tablet, laptop, using chat or web camera, etc. it is necessary to be able to read the screen of a digital device and learn this information, to be able to use various digital devices to increase one's work productivity, to be able to use cloud technologies at any time and in any place.
Berman ND. Society of Russia called "K voprosu o digitali literacie":
"Digital literacy includes the personal, technical and intellectual skills needed to live in the digital world," said educational space magazine.
As digital technologies occupy a central place in society, the understanding of digital competence has expanded to include technical aspects, and the concept of digital literacy includes digital use, digital competence, and digital security.
In addition, he gave the following definitions for each concept:
Digital competence - mastering search technologies on the Internet, the ability to critically perceive information and check its correctness, the ability to create multimedia content intended for placement on the Internet, the ability to use mobile devices in communication, the ability to perform financial transactions via the Internet, the use of online services to obtain services and goods includes
Digital usage - reflects the availability of various digital technologies, hardware and software, and the level of their use.
In particular, it is determined by the level of use of broadband Internet, online shopping, electronic government services, availability of mobile Internet, availability of digital devices, sufficient level of Internet.
Digital security - mastering the skills of safety of work on the network, as well as socio-psychological: the ability to protect personal data, ensure the confidentiality and integrity of information, protect them from computer viruses, the relationship to pirated software, the level of communication culture in social networks, information on the network the level of observance of ethical and legal norms in the setting [3].
Currently, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan is introducing a number of new initiatives.
In particular, in grades 3-4, the subject "Information and communication technologies (ICT)" was introduced, which forms general basic knowledge of working with modern digital technologies for effective use of digital technologies in education and everyday life.
The purpose of the curriculum on the subject "ICT" (in the context of updating the content of secondary education) is to provide students with the skills, abilities and basic knowledge to work with digital tools to transform, create and use information models of real objects and processes, as well as to teach other educational subjects. Thus, competence in the use of digital technologies refers to their confident and critical use at home, school, work, leisure and communication [4].
This means that in today's world, for a primary school student, the mastery of digital technologies is on a par with such qualities as writing and reading skills.
After entering school, the child enters the world of knowledge, where it is necessary to discover the unknown, to look for non-standard ways of solving various activities.
A child who has mastered technologies and information effectively, learns a new style of thinking, and also looks at solving the problem and organizing his activities in a different way.
Therefore, it is important to develop digital literacy of students starting from primary school.
The content of the "ICT" educational program for grades 3-4 provides for mastering the content of the study by using digital devices.
Digital devices are technical devices for receiving and processing information.
These include a tablet, computer, interactive whiteboard, smartphone, etc. belongs to [5]. Basic content of the study subject (for 3rd grade):
- Computer:
Computer devices, input and output devices; Software:
service of computer programs (linker, programs for viewing pictures);
program menu;
use menu commands;
files and packages;
open and save files on the computer.
- Safety equipment:
basic safety rules - Information processing and display
- Texts:
text editor service; program menu;
typing and editing text;
formatting symbols and paragraphs;
operations with text; add symbols.
- Graphics: task of graphic editor;
open and save images; drawing using editor tools;
color palette;
image editing;
crop, rotate and resize the image;
making a copy of parts of the image.
- Presentation:
task of presentation creation programs;
program menu;
open and save presentations;
placement of text and images on the slide;
switch between slides;
presentation design;
turn on the sound.
- Multimedia:
sound information input and output devices;
sound editor service;
sound recording;
processing and playback of sounds;
use of sound effects.
- Work on the Internet:
Service of programs for searching information, viewing web pages;
search engines;
keyword search;
- Information exchange:
methods of information exchange;
copy the specified text and image to the document;
- Internet security: Internet security rules.
4 classes:
- Computer:
computer devices, internal and external computer devices;
- Software:
working with files and packages, operating with them (creating, copying, moving and deleting);
use the context menu when working with files and packages;
search for information on a computer (package, file, fragment of text).
- Safety equipment:
compliance with safety rules while working with devices equipped with a screen;
- Processing and display of information:
Texts:
insert illustrations, pictures and decorative text in a text document;
bulleted and numbered lists;
search for a text fragment in a document.
- Graphics:
graphic editors;
photo processing (light, contrast, frame);
make a collage.
- Presentations:
slide layout;
setting animation for objects in the presentation;
putting pictures, decorative text, video and sound in the presentation.
- Multimedia:
programs for working with sound;
internal and external computer devices for working with sound;
write music in the sound editor;
internal and external computer devices for video recording and viewing; record and edit video using video editors; copy, move and delete video fragments.
- Working on the Internet:
Searching for information, configuring the browser (setting bookmarks, viewing downloads and history);
- Information exchange:
sending information via the Internet, sending and receiving messages with attached files via e-mail;
- Security on the Internet: passwords, criteria for a strong password [4]
If the computer is the main educational tool for the content of the subject of general informatics, taking into account that according to the updated education program, all digital devices are used, it is necessary to teach not only the computer, but also integrate all digital devices in the implementation of the goal of developing children's digital literacy from elementary school. we conclude that.
For example, it is recommended to use a computer, a digital camera, and a digital phone to master the topic "Inserting images into the PAINT graphic editor".
You can insert pictures into the Paint graphic editor from the Internet from a computer, smartphone, camera, or tablet.
Therefore, in mastering this topic, it is necessary to realize the set goal, guided by the mentioned devices.
"Multimedia:
programs for working with sound; internal and external computer devices for working with sound;
in the process of mastering the topics of "recording music in a sound editor", in addition to programs for recording sound on a computer, programs for recording sound on a tablet and mobile phone should not be left out or should be given in the form of a group task.
"Computer internal and external devices for video recording and viewing;
record and edit video using video editors;
In mastering the topics "copying, moving and deleting video fragments", brief details about recording and editing video on a mobile phone should be given.
In conclusion, we conclude that teaching with integration of all digital devices in the mentioned educational program helps to develop children's digital literacy.
DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY AS A TOOL FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR COUNTRY
Today, technology is improving not every day, but even every minute, so it is true that not only an individual or a team, but the whole nation will be successful only if it increases its competitiveness.
In order to be competitive, we need to offer superior quality products or services and advanced technologies, mastering the best aspects of achievements in the world market.
One of the most advanced technologies today is digital technology.
Digital technology will be a self-sustaining and reliable tool for rapid economic development.
This article proves that digital technologies are an integral part of modern life.
Also, types of digital technologies in various fields, today's achievements, advanced technologies are shown.
How digital technologies change people's lives, the benefits they give them are revealed.
Keywords: digital technology, information technology, Internet, IP-technology
Today, the field of information technology occupies a large place in the world market.
Therefore, if we direct young people to specialize in this field, it is clear that we will enter the world market.
Because this is the demand of the times.
This means - a large center, collecting statistical information, analyzing it correctly, presenting it as a conclusion.
Digital technology will be a self-supporting and reliable tool for rapid economic development.
The Head of State's "The Third Revival of Kazakhstan:
Address to the people of Kazakhstan "global competitiveness" was a clear and concise document that raised important issues for the future of the country.
In the message, it was said that our country should complete two modernization processes within a quarter of a century, and move to the priority of accelerated technological modernization, which will ensure the growth of our third economy at the world level.
The need for an economic and technological upheaval in the country was emphasized at the gathering of experts from various fields.
And for that, priority is given to the IT sector.
The state program envisages the implementation of four main directions.
They are: Development of digital infrastructure, improvement of digital literacy of the population and improvement of electronic and mobile government system for public service provision.
It is planned to increase the number of Internet users to 80 percent by 2020, and to cover 95 percent of the population with digital broadcasting.
If we look at it, it will not cause us much trouble.
Smartphones are the only proof of that.
Currently, 50 percent of the world's population is connected to the Internet.
And 18 million in the country. 53 percent of them live in cities.
Kazakhstanis have about 25 million mobile phones, more than 70 percent of which are connected to the Internet.
All this can be a real proof of the digital age.
Today, technology is improving not every day, but even every minute, so it is true that not only an individual or a team, but the whole nation will be successful only if it increases its competitiveness.
In order to be competitive, we need to offer a product or service superior in quality to others, taking advantage of global market successes.
Our country is now moving to the digital system. In this regard, it is expected that there will be big changes in the labor market.
If we say that advanced technologies are the beginning of qualification, the progress of the country will be determined by the development of information technology.
The goals of the state program "Digital Kazakhstan" in the medium term are to accelerate the rate of development of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and improve the quality of life of the population due to the use of digital technologies, as well as to create conditions for moving the economy of Kazakhstan to a fundamentally new development trajectory that ensures the creation of the digital economy of the future in the long term. . Achieving this goal means following two directions of development:
"Digitalization of the current economy" - providing a pragmatic start consisting of specific projects in a specific sector, digitalization of current sectors of the economy, state structures and the launch of projects for their technological re-equipment and development of digital infrastructure.
Today, the Internet economy is growing at a rate of up to 25% per year in developing countries, while no other sector of the economy can even come close to such a rate.
Almost 90% of all global data has been created in the last two years.
There are already 35 billion devices connected to the Internet and exchanging data, which is five times more than the total population of the world.
But at the same time, governments and corporations spend nearly half a trillion US dollars every year to counter a new, widespread phenomenon - cyberattacks.
Efforts towards digitization will lead to the creation of a new society where human capital is actively developed - knowledge and skills of the future are nurtured from an early age, efficiency and speed of business work increases due to automation and other new technologies, and citizens' dialogue with their states is simple and open.
The digital revolution is happening before our eyes.
These changes have been caused by the introduction of many technological innovations used in various fields in recent years.
The methods of production and obtaining added value are radically changing, new requirements for people's knowledge and labor skills are emerging.
The Industrial Internet of Things will shape the future of manufacturing industries and provide a revolutionary increase in productivity, using the possibilities of flexible and smart production.
Artificial intelligence is also being introduced in conservative industries such as financial services and medicine.
Even today, 3D printing technology contributes to the transformation of industries such as aviation, logistics, biomedicine, and the automotive industry.
Blockchain has all the prerequisites to transform the global monetary system.
Big data and the mass availability of communication are among the factors that are rapidly distributed on a global scale, on the basis of which the economy of shared consumption is being built.
Digital technologies are an integral part of modern life.
There are no areas that are not affected by information. Ts
Crypto technologies are widespread not only in music and cinema, but also in the field of preservation of historical and cultural heritage.
For example, digital technology has allowed the visual arts to move away from the understanding of the material as an object, and to identify the attributes of the original while exploring its uniqueness.
The use of digital technologies allows not only to preserve the existing cultural heritage, but also to create new forms of art. In addition, the development of technologies allows to achieve a high level of interaction with the user by creating virtual spaces on the Internet (sites, pages on social networks). A modern cultural scientist should have the following competencies in the use of digital technologies:
 technical environment (the type of equipment used to solve the main tasks);
 software environment (a set of software for their implementation);
 object environment - opens a specific cultural project through the possibilities of using information technologies;
Digital technology is a tool that everyone can use not only at work, but also in their daily lives.
Digital technology facilitates a range of activities, making new activities accessible in many ways; if we can use modern technologies, then the integration of our skills and abilities in our main field will be qualitative and their development will be successful.
Today, many people use digital technologies because they are designed to transfer data easily and quickly.
Those who want to use digital technologies in the reconstruction of their systems should be aware that there are other systems, which have their own advantages and disadvantages.
There are areas where the use of digital technologies is mandatory, such as digital video recording. Of course, it is easier to manage images stored on the hard disk, because they are compact and make it easy to access any information. Major companies are investing heavily in producing innovative, high-quality video production equipment. What are digital technologies and what can they do for people? First of all, it is an unlimited access to a large amount of different information. Any internet user can find any news or information within minutes. For example, using digital technologies, if we need any help, we can easily find it by visiting a service site. This possibility has a great impact on news sources, but it should be noted that traditional media will not lose their position. However, all forms of mass media use advanced technologies. Currently, IP-technologies are developing very quickly and actively, they provide high-speed connection to the Internet. Thus, it can be said that the future of mass media is presented as an Internet resource. Internet technologies have confidently entered today's life, and they are all moving forward. Networks based on the gateway protocol are an excellent solution that allows users to monitor the activity of various sites. This presents great opportunities, especially for companies with a network of offices around the world. If digital and analog technologies are used simultaneously, the quality of existing equipment can be improved. According to research by IHS Technology, by 2025 the vehicle for industrial automation will be "Internet of Things," and Internet Protocol (IP)-enabled devices will be the main driving force bringing the two together. Industrial automation accounted for just over half of all Internet-connected devices in 2012, according to IHS Technology. By 2025, industrial automation tools will account for about 3/4. Today, the phrase "Digital technology" is often mentioned. Actively developing new technologies at the global level are soon becoming the concept of IT capabilities. Internet broadcasting is one of the main technologies based on digital information. It is common knowledge that many household appliances are connected to the electrical network. But gradually, the objects of this physical world are connected to the Internet, which makes it possible to collect information and even control these objects remotely. In fact, a virtual copy of a physical object appears on the Internet, which includes various parameters of the object and the outside world, and provides opportunities to control the object from the Internet. An example of Internet broadcasting is a projector in a cinema, which sends a technical support signal about a detected problem. There are still unsolved problems: the creation of devices that consume the least amount of electricity and the creation of new standards for the operation of mutual distribution. Now, let's talk about what the future of digital technology will be, which equipment will have its time and become widespread in the future. The main idea of virtual reality (VR) is provided by Google Cardboard sets and Samsung Gear VR. But these two models are limited by the need to use the smartphone screen as a BP display, and the software used in them are mobile applications that are only a fraction of the capabilities of a PC. However, the development of long-awaited technologies is expected soon. Special displays and controllers, motion tracking techniques will be more interesting than before. At the end of March 2017, the long-awaited Oculus Rift technology and HTC Vive SteamVR technologies were launched just before the spring holidays. After these two events, Sone PlayStation VR, known as Project Morpheus, will be launched. Virtual reality is changing the way we view video games, business management, military training, and the world around us in general. As it is currently known, the price of Oculus will be more "affordable" than Vive. Personal computers are suitable for games, work, surfing the net. But Intel is trying to reduce dependence on wires thanks to wireless technologies. The company is developing WiGig, a gigabit data transfer standard supported by Dell and HP. WiGig connects monitors, hard drives, and other peripherals to computers. At the same time, Intel Corporation is developing a method for wireless charging of laptops, which uses a tablet that provides 20 W of power. The retail market is eagerly awaiting the launch of wireless laptop chargers.
Using Intel's Perceptual computing technology, computers are being invented that can be controlled with hand gestures instead of the computer keyboard, and can be stopped by eye movements instead of pressing the "stop" key.
However, in order to use these mentioned in practice, it is necessary to purchase the corresponding devices.
These mentioned devices are Windows 10 laptops with RealSense camera, Windows Hello security system, which recognizes the user's identity based on the owner's biometric data.
Microsoft's dream of wall-sized PCs is nothing new today with the Perceptive Pixel display.
But it did not arouse much interest of the public.
But Microsoft will try again with Surface Hub technology.
This great device is designed for business with a diagonal of 84 inches.
The monitor runs on Windows 10, which basically works for the same purposes as a normal PC.
The idea of the company is not to build a big computer, but to create a board that can use a marker.
Microsoft sometimes releases videos that introduce users to concepts and visions of future digital technologies.
One of the latest videos showed tablets made of flexible material that can be bent in half.
This dense electronic paper looks like a touch screen.
Digital technology is a discrete system based on the methods of information encoding and transmission, which allows to perform many different tasks in a short period of time.
It is the speeds and versatility of these schemes that have made IT technologies so popular.
The introduction of new digital technologies in medicine is saving millions of lives every year.
Modern research helps to create high-tech equipment for diagnosis, analysis and treatment of many diseases.
Clinical research, which can be carried out using unique empirical methods, opens up vast opportunities for the production of previously unknown drugs.
Improvements in pharmacology, therapy, and surgery methods contribute to reducing mortality and improving quality of life.
Various virtual methods allow to diagnose diseases in the shortest possible time.
Boom in industry With population growth on our planet, production growth is gaining priority in many areas of activity.
Digital technology is the speeding up of any production processes using very advanced methods.
The introduction of information systems and new technologies of various parts of the enterprise allows to increase the efficiency of the industrial organization.
By making more products in the shortest time, industrialists get opportunities to sell their products all over the world.
In expanding the boundaries of possibilities, modern digital technologies help them to increase the rate of economic development.
Reducing the need for human resources in production frees the creative resources of society and directs them to their spiritual and cultural development.
The promising development of the world's leading experts is ready to conquer the whole world.
Virtual mirrors are installed in large clothing stores.
Such technologies are also tested in cars and on the streets of large cities.
Virtual reality has long been copied from fantasy films to the entertainment industry.
The Internet is not only used for information exchange.
Digital technology provides opportunities to create a copy of the physical world.
A smart socket can notify you of a forgotten appliance, an iron may be turned on, a washing machine may malfunction.
The development of IT communications involves interaction not only between a person and a device, but also between the two mechanisms.
Information exchange between different elements of the conveyor network, simple maintenance method, logistics management - this is a list of amazing benefits that digital technologies can provide.
WAYS TO DEVELOP ALGORITHMICAL THINKING OF SCHOOL STUDENTS IN THE CASE OF DIGITALIZATION OF EDUCATION
The main directions of modernizing the education system of the country in accordance with modern requirements are clearly indicated in the state program for the development of education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019.
Its main task is to raise the quality of education and increase the competitiveness of the national education system.
Therefore, the need to improve the teaching methodology and further increase the efficiency of training students is a clear issue.
Current changes in the country, new strategic directions of sustainable development and the openness of society, its rapid information literacy, intensity have fundamentally changed the requirements for education.
The introduction of a new model of education focuses on education as a process of personality development.
Informatization of education is a part of the continuous education system and is of great importance in ensuring the development of human intellectual ability in modern society.
And in the system of secondary education, the teaching of informatics takes a special place in the development of students' cognitive abilities and logical thinking.
Formation of students' algorithmic thinking style is very relevant in the modern educational process.
Algorithmic thinking is a necessary component of a scientific approach to the world.
Computer science has a special place among the natural sciences in the formation of algorithmic thinking of schoolchildren.
Keywords: algorithmic thinking, programming, modernization, digitization, logical thinking, calculation system
The main directions of modernizing the education system of the country in accordance with modern requirements are clearly indicated in the state program for the development of education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019.
Its main task is to raise the quality of education and increase the competitiveness of the national education system.
Therefore, the need to improve the teaching methodology and further increase the efficiency of training students is a clear issue [1].
"...We must develop new industries that will be created using digital technology.
This is an important complex task.
The country needs to develop 3D-printing, online shopping, mobile banking, digital services, healthcare, education and other promising areas.
These industries have already changed the structure of the economies of developed countries and given a new quality to traditional industries.
In this regard, I instruct the Government to develop and adopt a separate program "Digital Kazakhstan". [2].
Today, our President set the task of the Third Modernization of Kazakhstan.
The fourth priority mentioned in the message is to improve the quality of human capital.
It is impossible to implement the Third Modernization without creating world-class education and healthcare systems. At the same time, it is necessary to qualitatively develop human capital against new global threats.
And the core of human capital is education.
Education is the guarantee of future development.
That's why the President refers to changing the role of the education system according to this priority.
Competing through education, getting ahead through education is an important task in every way.
Because it is obvious to everyone that the world will not develop without the development of science.
At the same time, the main task of Kazakhstan education is to make education the central link of the new model of economic growth.
Speaking about the development of the education sector, the President emphasizes the need to direct training programs to the development of critical thinking and self-research skills, to form IT knowledge, financial literacy, and to develop patriotism.
Focuses on reducing the gap in the quality of education between urban and rural schools.
Current changes in the country, new strategic directions of sustainable development and the openness of society, its rapid information literacy, intensity have fundamentally changed the requirements for education.
The introduction of a new model of education focuses on education as a process of personality development.
Informatics education is a part of the continuous education system and is of great importance in ensuring the development of human intellectual ability in modern society.
And in the system of secondary education, the teaching of informatics takes a special place in the development of students' cognitive abilities and logical thinking.
In this regard, the main task of educational subjects is not only to acquire knowledge on the subject, but also to form certain qualities of students as individuals, to form their thinking ability.
In particular, the school computer science course should first of all be aimed at forming the thinking style characteristic of science in students, in particular, algorithmic thinking.
The algorithmic idea that "skills and abilities have general cultural, general educational, universal values and are necessary for practically every person in the modern world, regardless of the level of education and the field of application of his professional interests" was formulated about 20 years ago.
However, during this time, despite the rapid progress in computer technology and its penetration into all areas of human life, the prevalence of algorithmic thinking has not changed significantly.
The universal teaching of computer education in schools and universities should have a beneficial effect in this area, but this has not happened yet.
Therefore, it is necessary to search for new effective means of developing students' algorithmic thinking, because it is important for the further self-realization of an individual in the information society. In the era of information technologies, before studying computer science courses, modern schoolchildren have experience working in social networks and are familiar with the basics of working with a computer.
The task of the teacher is complex - it is difficult to transfer the interest of students from computer games and social networks as a means of personal self-development and professional growth.
In today's era of digitalization, it is important to teach students to program by systematically providing a system of problems in the development of algorithmic thinking of students in the school computer science course.
It is known that the earlier the algorithmic thinking of students develops, the more effective it will be if we teach programming by solving problems taken from real life when creating the problem system.
The problem of teaching programming using real-life problems in the school computer science course is little studied.
In the pedagogical process, accounting is one of the means of mastering the system of scientific knowledge, "taken from real life", and forming skills for solving industrial problems.
To solve each problem, the student is required not only to systematize and extract the previously acquired knowledge, but also to search for and master new knowledge unknown to them, new methods and tools that were not known to them before, based on what they already knew.
Calculations stimulate students' thinking ability, bring their educational activity closer to information search, introduce to a certain extent the stages and methods of scientific knowledge tools and prepare them for further educational activities. Teaching students the basics of algorithmic thinking is based on the concept of the performer.
This concept has recently entered the everyday use of computer science teachers, and many courses are based on this approach. The performer can be considered as a robot provided with a set of buttons.
Each button corresponds to one action the robot can perform.
Pressing a button causes the robot to perform a specific action.
The robot operates in a known environment.
To describe a performer, it is necessary to define the environment in which it operates and the actions to be performed when each button is pressed.
The rationale for introducing performers is accounting.
Executors used in computer science are traditional.
Algorithmic thinking has some properties of logical thinking, but requires additional properties. Ability to find the order of operations required to solve a given problem and to find simple problems in a given problem that lead to the solution of the original problem.
Logical thinking is not necessary, but algorithmic thinking should be.
Currently, there are many programs designed to develop children's ability to think algorithmically.
In the course of conducting regular development classes, during the performance of systematically organized interesting tasks, favorable conditions are created for the formation of valuable qualities such as algorithmic thinking and self-reliance.
Computer exercises are one of the types of lessons, which should be done in all lessons and should be the apotheosis of the lesson.
Any computer science lesson should have computer and non-computer fragments.
Their correct compatibility should be determined by methodological and ergonomic requirements.
Despite the fact that many educational programs are designed and focused on the formation of a certain skill, computer programs embedded in the lesson should have a multi-purpose methodological load. It is important to develop an algorithmic thinking style when teaching the chapter "Algorithmization and programming" in the school computer science course.
However, in practice, this chapter is not given much attention during teaching.
Often in the school computer science course, special attention is paid to the teaching of information technology.
And teaching programming is not taught at all or is taught in professionally oriented classes, that is, in grades 10-11.
The reason for this is the insufficient level of training of computer science teachers in the field of programming and algorithms.
However, it is known that the earlier students develop their algorithmic thinking, the more effective it will be.
The problem of teaching programming with a school computer science course is little studied.
The experience of teaching programming shows that the main difficulties arise not when learning the syntax and basic constructions of the programming language, but during algorithmization.
These difficulties are connected with insufficient level of formation of algorithmic thinking, unwillingness to accept higher-level abstraction and logical materials.
A modern teacher pays attention not only to the ability of students to solve problems aimed at acquiring knowledge, but also to see the application of those problems and to be able to apply the knowledge gained in everyday life.
In order to check the formation of their knowledge, they should prepare special tasks and reports (beyond traditional tasks).
The results of the literature review show that the works in this direction are currently being carried out on a large scale.
In our opinion, one of the main pedagogical technologies used in the development of students' algorithmic thinking is the method of calculations based on "real life" problems [3].
By "real-life" problems oriented to practice, we mean the use of the knowledge that arises in our environment, based on the student's personal experience, and also to solve those problems.
To solve "real-life" problems, the student must determine the solution himself, based on his experience in solving different types of problems. How to solve "real life" problems.
It is impossible to find a universal answer to this question.
However, each such report has its own characteristics, like one end of a thread.
If you decide with that feature in mind, you can easily find the other end of the thread.
As such, the main idea is to solve problems "taken from real life".
Solving problems "taken from real life" is a complex process, in order to successfully implement it, students must be able to think, and also have a good knowledge of materials, they must be able to use general methods of problem solving.
Solving problems "taken from real life" awakens students' interest in computer science and its fields of application, deepens their knowledge of program materials, helps to develop the abilities of individual students and the class as a whole.
The ability to find solutions to "real-life" problems with a high level of complexity is a high indicator of the development of students' logic.
Every person solves many problems in his life.
Each academic subject has its own set of problems.
Compilers of such a collection of reports direct, firstly, to the acquisition of knowledge and skills of that subject, and secondly, to the formation of appropriate cognitive processes of a person during the preparation of reports.
However, while solving the same problem, different people will get different results, some will actually learn and some will not learn anything.
And for these reports to be "real life" reports, a person must accept those reports as "real life" reports.
In terms of structure, "real-life" reports may overlap with other reports.
But the goals set for students may be different.
It depends on the specific audience.
The use of "real-life" problems teaches students to solve problems by analyzing the conditions of each problem in advance, rather than solving them immediately.
The chapter "Algorithms and programming" in grades 7-9 was selected to describe the teaching methodology for solving problems "taken from real life".
In order to organize students' thinking in teaching to solve problems "taken from real life", the lesson should be filled with materials aimed at developing logical thinking.
Not every student has the ability to work independently when solving "real life" problems.
Especially during the analysis of the conditions of the problem, students are engaged in group thinking, searching for different ways to solve the problem, making guesses.
When choosing "real life" problems, it is necessary to collect problems so that each student can realize his potential.
In our work, we collect such "Real life" reports and group them by topics or a certain field, and consider the problems of teaching students to program.
USING ROBOTIC SYSTEMS IN IMPROVING DIGITAL LITERACY
The article is aimed at studying the importance of increasing the digital literacy of the population in forming a creative society, one of the four main directions of the "Digital Kazakhstan" state program.
For this, I believe that the academic hours allocated to teaching digital technologies, including robotic technical systems and tools, should be increased in the educational process.
This is because robotic technical systems can be the basis for mastering "smart" technologies and have a positive effect on the creative and intellectual development of citizens.
Intelligent robotic technical systems are divided into three generations.
Despite the fact that robotic technology is developing from one generation to another, and its capabilities are increasing, they have not yet been fully explored.
According to the type of management, robotic technical systems are divided into biotechnical, automatic and interactive.
Advances in technical cybernetics and automatic control theory are very important in the development of robot control methods.
The use of robots in the educational process provides a great opportunity for students to form basic concepts in the field of engineering culture, to increase their interest in the field of natural sciences and real sciences, to develop non-standard thinking ability and creativity of students in performing applied tasks, as well as to form research skills.
Keywords: Digital literacy, artificial intelligence, automation, robotic technical system.
"Digital society is a modern development period of civilization, characterized by the priority of the role of knowledge and information in all areas of society's life, ICT has a decisive impact on people's lives, their education and work, as well as on the interactions of the state, business and society" In the state program "Digital Kazakhstan" our ambassador N.A. As Nazarbayev said, digital technologies are the main means of forming a rapidly developing state, and mastering them quickly is one of the main goals facing modern society.
One of the main four directions of the state program "Digital Kazakhstan" is the formation of a creative society, that is, the development of human capital by increasing the digital literacy of the population, raising the qualifications of specialists in the field of information and communication technology, and developing creative thinking. The purpose of this direction is to develop the skills and competencies of the population in order to expand the possibilities of using digitalization priorities.
According to the goal, two tasks are set: to increase the digital literacy of the population and to train specialists in the field of ICT for economic sectors.
In order to fulfill and implement these goals and tasks, we need to master modern digital technologies. Modern digital technologies have advanced so rapidly that before it was only a device for transmitting sound at a distance, today it is not only a communication device, but also a wallet, keys, magazine, camera, video player, etc. is used in the form of
Due to the rapid development, printers have the ability to create complex three-dimensional projection models using 3D printers, which are used in various fields - from the food industry and medicine to the construction of buildings, in addition to printing sheets of documents [1].
Of course, the increase in the activity of ICT development and their deep penetration into the spheres of society requires the qualitative development of ready-made products and the facilitation of intellectual tasks. In order to increase the digital literacy of the population, of course, the teaching of digital technologies should be included in the educational process.
In addition, in this message of the leader, it is mentioned about the need to use smart technologies in all spheres of society in the direction of digital reconstruction in economic spheres.
I believe that in order to implement these problems, i.e., to effectively master smart technologies, the number of hours allocated to robotic technical systems taught in the current educational process should be doubled.
This is because it makes a great contribution to the creative and intellectual development of citizens. The creation of fully developed artificial intelligence will provide humanity with new opportunities in all areas of society.
As artificial intelligence is an area of computer science at the intersection of psychology, physiology, linguistics and other sciences, dealing with solving complex problems, quality education in creating and mastering artificial intelligent systems is one of the main requirements today.
Taking into account that the word intelligence in general means the Latin "Intellectus" - mind, mind, human thinking ability, working with artificial intelligence technologies is not limited to algorithmic procedures, but contributes to increasing the activity of self-development of the user, contributing to the process of formation of his level of intelligence. It is clear that it will have a positive effect.
Of course, along with the educational process, it is known that this system, which is widely used in all areas of production, still requires research, experience and their deep introduction in society.
Artificial intelligence is aimed at creating ways to transfer the function of living intelligent systems to artificial systems.
Robotics, a branch of artificial intelligence, is an applied science that develops automated technical systems and is an important technical basis for the rapid development of production.
Robotic technology is widely used in the fields of construction, industry, consumer, aviation and emergency services (military, space, underwater). Robotics as a phenomenon is a natural logical extension of technology.
The pace of automation of any work has gradually replaced people in many fields of activity, giving new opportunities to watch movies, diving, play computer games, and other activities with intense effort.
The consumption of the final product is gradually increasing and aspiring to 100%, not the amount spent by humanity to produce the means of production of common labor.
Already the workforce of many modern most powerful robots:
focused on the production of machines, cars, computers and other such machines. Nowadays, teaching the basics of robotics in the educational process is in great demand in many countries.
The main task is to focus young people on engineering professions and science.
To improve this idea, the World Robot Olympiad (WRO) is a competition for schoolchildren aged 10-18 - the International Robot Competition (IRC).
The first festival was held in Singapore in 2004, and more than 1000 talented students from 32 countries took part in it.
Robots can be divided into the following categories: industrial robots, military (radio-controlled machines, sappers), household (capsule coffee machines, smart vacuum cleaners), medical, transport (autonomous robots in the Amazon warehouse), service (helpers at the airport), exoskeletons (extended capabilities of the human body , restoring the lost function of the locomotor apparatus), human-like (Honda company Asimo), walking, space.
Robotics can be divided into three areas:
 Education;
 Competing;
 Creativity. Currently, students can engage in robotics outside of class and in elective courses. In such classes, the direction of competition prevails.
In other words, the competitive component is clearly involved.
The direction of education is indirectly determined only by the technical direction.
In this direction, gear-belt transmissions, changing the rotation space, changing the distance between the diameter of the wheel, the technology of moving along the line, object recognition and much more. Also, there will be a component, test and recovery programs, which will increase the algorithmic and programming skills of the action robot [2].
Currently, the literature divides robotic technical systems into three generations.
Most of the robots used in production today belong to the first generation.
The computing power of their management system is low (sometimes zero).
The only "intelligent" function of such a robot is to remember the sequence of actions given by the operator.
The technological situation in which they work must be completely deterministic.
This includes proper stabilization of tools, precise determination of spatial relationships with other equipment, and ensuring the safety of people near the tools.
Second-generation robotic technical systems appeared when an inexpensive microprocessor was embedded in the robot's control system.
In this generation, it was possible to calculate the movement elements of the manipulator segments by all degrees of movement.
Second-generation robots can work with mechanisms that lie on a moving carrier.
In some cases, moment and distance transmitters have been introduced into the system to ensure adaptation to changes.
Second-generation robots are mainly used in areas related to automatic production processes:
spot welding, spray painting, arc welding, assembly.
When working with robots of the second generation, it can be seen that the future of their development depends on the use of advanced transmitters and an increase in the computing power of the control system.
Third-generation robotic systems appeared a few years ago, but they have not yet been fully explored. The peculiarity of these systems is the use of several asynchronous microcomputers, each of which performs autonomous functions.
A typical third-generation robot is equipped with a special control processor for each degree of movement and a central processor that coordinates its operation.
The CPU performs other high-level functions.
Each low-level processor processes the motion speed and internal position encoder signals of its own manipulator block and is part of the servo control system of that block.
The central processor coordinates displacements on different levels, performs coordinate transformation when working in different coordinate systems, interacts with external transmitters, other robots and sensors, stores programs in its memory, and exchanges information with other computers through a communication network.
All the mentioned functions can be performed by a single computer, but new systems more often use a hierarchical system of data processing.
This is explained by the fact that the costs of low-end processors are completely compensated by the flexibility and simplicity of the system.
The manipulator consists of a series of rigid bodies (or segments), the first of which is connected to the supporting support, and the last of which is contained by the working tool. Each circuit is connected in such a way that it does not form a closed circuit with two other circuits.
The joint of two segments is assumed to have only one degree of freedom.
With this limitation in mind, two types of clipping are of particular interest: rotary and progressive.
A revolute joint transmits only rotation relative to a specific axis;
a sliding joint provides forward movement along a certain axis in the absence of rotation (forward movement with rotation occurs in screw joints).
Manipulator breaks are involved in relative motion, resulting in a specific position and grip or tool orientation. According to the type of management, robotic systems are divided into biotechnical, automatic, interactive. Biotechnical systems include commands (buttons to control and control individual links of the robot), copying (it is possible to repeat human movements, feedback that transmits applied forces, exoskeletons) and semi-automatic (control of a single command body, for example, a handle of the entire kinematic diagram of the robot) systems. Automatic robotic technical systems include program (operates according to a specific program, mainly for solving the same problems in the same environment), adaptive (solves typical problems, but adapts to operating conditions) and intelligent (the most advanced automated systems) systems.
Interactive robotic technical systems are automated (possible switching of automated and biotechnical modes), supervision (automatic systems in which humans perform targeted functions) and dialogue (the robot participates in a dialogue with a human to choose a behavioral strategy, so the robot usually predicts the results of the manipulation and selects the target). equipped with an expert system capable of providing advice).
The main tasks of managing robots:  planning rules;  movement planning;  planning forces and moments;  dynamic accuracy analysis;  determination of kinematic and dynamic characteristics of the robot. Advances in technical cybernetics and the theory of automatic control are very important in the development of robot control methods [3].
Robots are one of the top technologies of the rapidly developing future. Today, robots have already penetrated many areas of our life, in particular, space development, health care, production, public safety, defense and other areas.
Accelerated industrialization of industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan, rapid development of new technologies require training of the younger generation as highly qualified technical specialists.
Therefore, our modern age demands prompt and high-quality mastery of robotic technology for that generation.
The future is in robotics.
DIGITALIZATION OF NATIONAL VALUES AS THE MAIN DIRECTION OF MODERN KAZAKHSTAN
The article is devoted to the digitization of national characteristics.
The concept of digital culture appeared in the digitization of national features, and the meaning of the concepts of national features and digital culture was given.
Levels of digital culture that directly affect our national characteristics have been identified.
Digitization is a global trend and process followed by all countries aiming to develop a competitive economy and improve the quality of life of their people.
There are examples of countries that have started digital projects in the world.
The needs of creating digital educational resources due to our national characteristics were shown.
It is said that digital educational resources allow students to supplement their knowledge by explaining our national features with multimedia presentations and getting acquainted with new and interesting information.
In this regard, it is said that digital knowledge resources have a special place in the digitalization of national features, and this, in turn, is the main direction of modern Kazakhstan.
Keywords: national characteristics, digitalization, digital educational resources, digital culture, information, information technologies, digital technologies
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. In Nazarbayev's address to the people of Kazakhstan "New opportunities for development in the context of the fourth industrial revolution", the comprehensive program "Digital Kazakhstan" was adopted.
In his address, our President said, "We must develop new industries created by using digital technology.
This is an important complex task," he clarified.
Digitization is a global trend and process followed by all countries aiming to develop a competitive economy and improve the quality of life of their people.
More than 15 countries in the world have now started digital projects.
Among them are China, Singapore, Denmark, South Korea, New Zealand, and Canada.
Singapore has implemented the "Smart Nation" project, South Korea has implemented the "Creative Economy" project, and since 2015, Denmark has obliged all citizens to communicate with government agencies only through the Internet.
While Singapore has managed to create a "smart economy", China has implemented the "Internet Plus" system.
The "Digital Kazakhstan" project, a good continuation of the global phenomenon, has also started its work in our country.
Information is one of the bases of functioning of social processes in the modern post-industrial era, and at the same time, information exchange is a condition of mutual communication between them.
The information space expands human capabilities, helping to regulate geographical and political boundaries through the global network, to make the culture of world values accessible to everyone for understanding, to "virtualize" the economic sphere of human life.
The speed of dissemination of information flow leads to the situation of digitization of the lives of individuals and social processes.
A real-time shift in cultural paradigms is happening right before our eyes.
Since the term "informatization" is becoming a much less relevant issue, the younger generation born and growing up during this process is living in digital format.
The traditional culture format created in the system of values is used by the younger generation as video culture, screen culture, computer game culture, etc. accepts.
The main phenomenon that defines a single modern digital culture is the personal computer and all the various digital devices.
Digital devices include: the Internet, artificial intelligence, system and application software, computer graphics and virtual reality systems, digital formats of traditional means of communication (books, pictures, audio and video recordings, digital television, etc.), computer games and technological art.
Analyzing the processes, we notice that the problem of forming a special type of culture in the digital era is becoming more relevant.
Digitization as a social phenomenon began to spread in the 60s and 70s of the 20th century.
It is characterized by three main characteristics:
1. All types of analog, physical and statistical content are moving to digital, they are becoming mobile and independent.
At the same time, the person has the opportunity to monitor his personal content, send information requests, create a personal trajectory of information activities.
2. The transition to simple communication technologies has begun (technology is a way and means of communication), the main characteristic of the device and technology is control.
3. Connections will not be uniform:
vertical, hierarchical communication is losing its relevance, transition to network structure of communication is taking place.
The modern system of education has passed the active level of computerization and information.
These processes were temporary, due to changes in funding, the level of development of universities, the level of training of teaching staff, etc. depended on.
The era of digitization is a consequence of future social changes.
A simple method of imaging and application, the highest speed of data transmission are the main components of digitization.
We all know the cultural significance of digital devices regardless of their merits and demerits. "With their distribution, people's daily lives will change.
The system of formation of cultural experience, all the main areas of culture will change."
The new system of information values has a specific character.
Digitization of our national features creates the need to update the methods and principles of higher school work aimed at future specialists of the digital age.
Our national features are analyzed in a number of works on cultural studies, sociology and philosophy.
In the cultural-philosophical aspect, national peculiarities are interpreted as the "third nature" that continues natural habitats, that is, a new form of life.
And, during the digitization of our national features, humanity will find a new way of life in the virtual space, and the value of real life will gradually shift to the virtual side.
The border between them is separated, and the relationship to life becomes stronger.
Like any type of culture, the digital culture that emerges due to digitization determines human behavior, communication features, motivation, and lifestyle.
D. V. Galkin considers digital culture at several levels of understanding, and this point of view is legitimate.
The material level of digital culture is direct digital devices of all kinds.
In this case, we can consider a part of digital culture as a programming language.
The main level of digital culture is the representation of numbers in the system of relationships and values established during work with information and digital devices, in the traditional culture of a person.
The spiritual level of digital culture is the value basis of digitization, the principles of "formation and support of national, inter-ethnic, ethnic and local spiritual values". At this level, digital culture affects the general level of development of society's spiritual culture.
Analyzing all levels of digital culture, which directly affects our national characteristics, firstly, as a value of modern society based on technical systems, digital coding, connected with communication mechanisms, secondly, as a product of human activities related to the culture of the digital age; thirdly, it is possible to consider it as a unity of social and psychological characteristics of an individual and create digital educational resources based on national characteristics. The main component of digitalization of education is digital knowledge resources.
Digital educational resources - explain our national features with multimedia displays and allow to supplement knowledge by getting acquainted with new and interesting information.
Digital knowledge resources should be information in different formats, convenient for each user, regardless of the place of connection to the portal.
Digital education resources can be used by teachers to conduct lessons, students to prepare for lessons on their own, and as reference materials.
Digital learning resources should allow teachers to create learning materials for different learning objectives.
The use of digital educational resources in connection with national peculiarities in education allows the student to remember the taught topics and to gain a deeper understanding of the fundamentals of our state.
The goal of digital education resources is to strengthen the intellectual capabilities of students in the information society, and also to improve the quality of all levels of the educational system.
The following bases of the use of digital educational resources for pedagogical purposes according to national characteristics can be noted:
- intensification of all levels of educational periods at the expense of modern information technologies (increasing the quality and effectiveness of the educational period; deepening inter-disciplinary communication, increasing and optimizing the amount of searching for necessary information; increasing the activity of cognitive services);
- personal development of the student, preparation of a person for a comfortable life under the conditions of the information society
(development of types of thinking;
development of communicative abilities;
aesthetic education using the calculation of computer graphics and multimedia technologies;
formation of information, digital culture, ability to implement information processing).
The main teaching and controlling device is at the levels of the lesson given to the computer, the teacher observes, actively learns the purpose of the student's search, previously taught tasks, supplements the missing knowledge from ready-made information sources, and has the opportunity to determine the quality of self-research.
This allows the teacher to develop self-management activities and a gradual creative relationship in learning.
To ensure the high quality of education, active use of digital educational resources of the younger generation in the educational process is one of the urgent issues facing the pedagogical community within the given program today.
In this regard, it can be noted that digital knowledge resources have a special place in the digitization of national features, and this, in turn, is the main direction of modern Kazakhstan.
THE ROLE OF CRITERION ASSESSMENT IN FORMING STUDENTS' FUNCTIONAL LITERACY
The central figure of the learning process in accordance with international standard requirements in the modern world education space is the learning subject, and the fact that the final result of the subject's acquired knowledge is defined as competences increases the urgency of basing the problem of "functional literacy" formation in the educational system.
In this regard, the formation of competences, which represent the ability and readiness to act on the basis of the acquired knowledge, is one of the priority directions of teaching each subject in secondary schools of general education, which is considered an important link of the continuous education system.
The article defines the role of criterion assessment in forming functional literacy of students in high school.
This criterial assessment quality, their compliance with international standards provides the student's educational needs, the criterial assessment system aims to improve the student's development, his interest and motivation to study.
Keywords: Criterion assessment, functional literacy, educational achievement, computer, informational and operational literacy.
In the Address of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy of Kazakhstan 2050 - the new political direction of the established state", special attention was paid to improving education for young people.
The President said: "In order to become a competitive developed country, we must become a highly literate country.
When will mass literacy simply not be enough in today's world?
Our citizens must always be ready to learn the skills of working with the most advanced equipment and in the most modern industries.
Also, it is necessary to pay great attention to the functional literacy of our children, in general, the entire younger generation.
It is very important that our children are adapted to modern times" - he emphasized [1].
In the state program for the development of education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019, it will be based on "expected results that allow to evaluate the student's work and achievements.
Formulation of the expected results allows to objectively evaluate the educational achievements of students, to determine the individual development trajectory of each student, taking into account their individual abilities, as well as to increase their motivation to develop their knowledge and skills in education, and to improve the quality of the educational process" [2].
The central figure of the learning process in accordance with international standard requirements in the modern world education space is the learning subject, and the fact that the final result of the subject's acquired knowledge is defined as competences increases the urgency of basing the problem of "functional literacy" formation in the educational system.
In this regard, the formation of competences, which represent the ability and readiness to act on the basis of the acquired knowledge, is one of the priority directions of teaching each subject in secondary schools of general education, which is considered an important link of the continuous education system.
Functional literacy considers the level of cognitive abilities of students and the indicator of productive work of students as the level of education.
This level is based on the applied nature of the content of school education and the acquired knowledge of students in solving tasks in various spheres of life.
Therefore, in order to master the skills and social experience of life and practical activities in society, the basic and subject competencies of students should be formed during education.
It is possible to achieve positive results only if the formation of functional literacy is focused on communication, informational and problem-solving and other basic competencies of students to meet the requirements of social demands imposed on the education system.
In the educational system, functional literacy in the content of knowledge is pre-systematized and regulated, and most of the expected results in the curricula and standards need to be aligned with functional literacy.
It is intended to ensure the competitiveness of Kazakhstani education by implementing the following directions of the current education policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
to offer equal opportunities for quality education to all citizens; to educate Kazakh patriotism, respect for human rights and freedom, civil responsibility and legal awareness;
fostering respect for national culture, tolerance, openness to other cultural origins;
formation of the ability to successfully socialize in society; interconnection of students' learning load with age-specific opportunities at each level of education and laws of psychophysiological development; providing opportunities to form a personal educational trajectory;
representation of teaching at the general secondary education level; introduction of leveled teaching of languages and formation of a multilingual personality; development of students' functional literacy.
Mastery of the system of basic competences, which allows students to use the acquired knowledge effectively in practical situations and in the process of social adaptation, results in the development of their functional literacy.
A functionally competent person acts according to the values of the society and according to the established interests of the social situation.
Today, he chooses the necessary profession, makes the right decision, learns the language of modern information technologies and adapts to any social environment.
In this context, the main characteristics of a functionally literate person can be formulated: he is considered to be a person who knows how to live in a social environment, knows how to communicate, has certain qualitative qualities, and has mastered general basic and subject competencies.
The central figure of the learning process in accordance with international standard requirements in the modern world education space is the learning subject, and the fact that the final result of the subject's acquired knowledge is defined as competences increases the urgency of basing the problem of "functional literacy" formation in the educational system.
In this regard, international research tasks are of great importance in determining the developed competences, which represent the ability and readiness to act on the basis of the acquired knowledge.
Today, the Kazakh education system faces the problems of increasing the competitiveness of the quality of education, adapting to the real life stages, because a person lives and works in society in conditions that require high professionalism and intellectual activities to make the right decisions related to various life issues.
In this regard, Kazakhstan uses PISA, PIRLS, TIMSS, IAEP, TALIS, ICILS, etc. to determine the level of educational achievement of students of the country. participated in international research.
According to this assessment, it proves the high significance of students' participation in international studies and identified new tasks of the teacher, the system of professional development, and methodological services.
Currently, many countries of Central and Eastern Europe have created the basis for monitoring and evaluating educational activities within the framework of the global reform of the education system of their countries. These countries have developed norms (standards) in the development of curricula, which are an important stage in the national education policy and control its quality as an integral part. began to determine.
These norms (standards) are a necessary basis for defining educational goals, forming a unified pedagogical space in the country, thanks to which a uniform level of general education received by young people in various types of education is ensured.
Monitoring of students' knowledge is one of the main elements of the assessment of the quality of education. Teachers monitor the educational activities of students every day.
The modern way of evaluating results in general education is very important. The methods and selection of evaluation criteria have been more careful.
In addition, an additional approach to the possibility of using the assessment results for the purposes of pedagogical or selective diagnosis.
To be used for one purpose or another, the evaluation results must have three properties.
They must: - be "valid" (according to educational programs); - objective and stable (not subject to changes, independent of time or the nature of the expert); - available (time, scientific forces and funds for their development and implementation should be available to the state).
There is an important negative side of the evaluation system in the traditional educational practice. The analysis of traditional methods showed that the educational quality evaluation system does not rely on objective methods of pedagogical measurements, so today the "quality" method is decided freely, each teacher develops his own system of his inspection work. The purpose of measurement in pedagogy is education is to obtain the numerical equivalent of the level. Measures are predetermined methods and methods parameters of qualitative and quantitative characteristics of success at the level of students [3].
In accordance with the modern requirements of the society, changes in education should be accompanied by a change in the educational strategy and, accordingly, by assessing the academic achievements of students.
In other words, it is necessary to create favorable conditions for showing and stimulating the individual potential of all participants of today's interaction in the field of education.
The criterion system for evaluating students' educational achievements is considered as one of the possible ways to achieve the set goals.
This criteria system:
- determining the learning level of each student at each stage of the educational process;
- getting an objective impulse to acquire knowledge not only during the academic year, but also during the entire academic period;
- distinguishing the importance of grades received by the student for performing different types of work (monitoring work, current, final monitoring, teaching, homework, creative and other work);
- shows the current and final assessment of the student's work;
- increasing the objectivity of knowledge assessment.
Analyzing the assessment component of education at different stages of secondary school development, the question of the need to change assessment methods in recent years is relevant.
The development of monitoring and evaluation in high school is an integral part of it.
However, there are still debates about the meaning of evaluation, its technology, the presentation of evaluations, because it should still be an indicator of the advantages and disadvantages of a specific educational system (methodology).
The expansion of educational content goes beyond the paradigm of "knowledge" and leads to the expansion and transformation of forms of evaluation activities in education.
Thus, the problem of optimal organization of monitoring of education and training processes will remain open.
Improving the evaluation system, developing new methods, increasing the level of motivation of students to the studied subjects is the responsibility of the school, state and society.
It is known that the educational process is a whole phenomenon.
Educational goals, content, teaching methodology, monitoring and evaluation of the results of educational activities are closely related and interconnected.
Keeping the old assessment system under the new conditions violates the integrity of the educational process, contradicts the changed tasks of the school, and prevents them from being solved.
Recently, in pedagogy, a criterion-referenced approach to the assessment of educational achievements has been formed, if the student's achievements are compared with the amount of knowledge that can be learned at a certain period of study, there is a need for assessment, the results of which help to determine what educational goals a particular student has achieved.
This was due to the promotion of such an aspect of assessment as a comparison of individual results with predetermined criteria. However, these definitions are not individual-oriented, and the aspects related to the competence approach and the new educational paradigm are characteristic of the activity, based on the development of new educational standards, the criteria are qualitatively new based on the approach. The evaluation system and systematic, interdisciplinary benefits were put forward.
Due to the formation of criteria for assessment of learning and cognitive competence with the expected activity of students, the lack of complex educational and training certificates, the proposal requires clarification of the logic of criterion evaluation of the competence approach and the definition of the new educational paradigm.
Criterion assessment is a comparison of educational achievements of students, comparison with collectively developed criteria known to all participants of the educational process, compliance with the goals and content of education, contributes to the formation of educational and cognitive competence of students.
Evaluation criteria are developed for each subject. If there is a correct composition of the criteria range, the student can independently assess the quality of his work, which contributes to the achievement of educational results and the formation of educational independence. The main elements of criterion evaluation:
analysis of the assessment process; all participants of the educational process (teachers, parents) (feedback to understand the level of development from the studied material, an opportunity for students to make necessary adjustments to the educational process to improve its content, organizational methods and types, administrative and management) provides feedback; it allows the teacher to receive information about the progress of knowledge acquisition of each student in order to monitor the dynamics of its development; the use of this monitoring tool increases the effectiveness of students' educational work and allows to correct the obtained results [4].
Criterion evaluation reduces the subjectivity of evaluation, offers teachers and students mechanisms that work equally in evaluation and self-evaluation, solves the objectivity of evaluation. This is achieved through well-known and defined criteria, alternatives for all participants in the educational process.
The implementation of the criteria evaluation system leads to the achievement of certain goals, which can be grouped into three main goal blocks:
- this approach provides the teacher and the student with a sufficiently clear, accurate and objective tool to determine the success of individual tasks and, as a result, overall positive academic achievements;
- the use of certain parameters makes it possible to connect the evaluation system to individual goals, as an individual study course, and to receive education at the appropriate stage of school education.
These assessment criteria are learning objectives that aim to achieve specific goals to determine how well each student has achieved.
Another aspect of evaluating these criteria is that the teacher, while planning his work, consistently maintains the general goals of the educational process.
One of them cannot be forgotten, because they are all based on criteria, each of which should be thought of as control tasks and as a system of preparatory measures for their implementation.
The transparency and procedural reliability of the criterion-referenced evaluation system is a powerful tool for both school administration and parents to participate in the learning process.
In the hands of the management of the educational institution, a tool for monitoring the results of the teacher's work appears in the hands of the multifaceted and constant information.
Parents, in turn, can get detailed information about their children's achievements and have more opportunities to understand what they have learned in school and what parameters they are evaluated on.
Thus, the single goal of criterion evaluation technology is to determine and improve the achievements of students' educational activities by using certain parameters (criteria) that allow to connect the evaluation system with individual goals, and to form the competence of learners at the appropriate level of students.
Tasks about criteria evaluation technology are as follows:
- to increase educational motivation of students, their activity in teaching, to eliminate emotional unpleasantness during discussion, analysis of answers, assessment;
- organizing, deepening, consolidating students' knowledge;
- during the educational process, control the process of students' learning completely, accurately and quickly, receive feedback, identify difficulties in teaching the material, identify and prevent errors and their causes, determine the quality of educational deficiencies;
- providing reliable feedback, determining the quality of mastering the material;
- to identify difficulties, errors and their causes in order to avoid gaps in knowledge.
Criterion assessment contributes to the development of individual abilities, freedoms and rights of each student;
formation of students' critical thinking;
education of students' ability and ability to continuously learn throughout their lives; formation of students' personal value system in concrete actions; mutual relations of children, development of their personal qualities, creativity and self-organization abilities;
making strong connections between learning activities and children's real lives.
Assessment is one of the most important aspects of teaching.
It plays a key role in regulating, correcting and managing this process.
Of course, assessment is also necessary to record student achievement both in the ongoing assessment regime and at the end of the program.
The motivational role of assessment cannot be lost.
One of the important relationships in the "teacher-student" system that affects the quality of education is assessment.
Within the framework of criterion evaluation, to stimulate the implementation of all types of education of students, to expand the possibilities of choice, to actively influence the success of their education, to improve the experience of creative and educational activities, the level and quality of education.
The future of criterion evaluation depends on several factors: systematic order of control measures; availability of inspection tools that meet the established criteria; scientific-methodological justification of the selection of dimensions and descriptors; develop a precise mechanism for giving a total score of the official evaluation level of the scale.
Thus, the definition of the concept of "criterion assessment" takes into account the personality-oriented and service-related aspects based on the competency approach and new educational paradigms, based on which the new educational standard, which proposes the requirements for the introduction of a new criterion assessment system to new pedagogical institutes of education, is defined as a systematic, interdisciplinary description.
The definition of criterion evaluation defines the process of comparing the educational achievements of students, comparing them with the criteria prepared by a certain team for all participants of the process, which correspond to the educational goals and content that contribute to the formation of students' learning and functional, cognitive competence [5].
In short, criterion evaluation is a process based on comparison of the student's achievements with the criteria created in advance by a group, known to all participants of the process, in accordance with the goals and content of education, which allows the formation of students' educational cognitive competencies.
It is clear that the criterion evaluation system is effective and high.
At the same time, there is also a disadvantage of criterion evaluation.
To introduce it, the main didactic tools - criteria and descriptors, test should be created.
It requires a lot of time, hard work, a lot of money, and patience.
This system still needs to be fully investigated.
The reason is that the use of a system with shortcomings and weaknesses in the educational process cannot show its effectiveness and is a well-known situation.
Therefore, if we want talented students, future young professionals to be the bright future of the country, then a comprehensive system of evaluating the educational achievements of students by all indicators, evaluation by criteria (specific indicators) still needs a comprehensive study from a scientific and methodological point of view.
TEACHING THE SECTION OF INFORMATION PROCESSES WITH THE HELP OF DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY IN THE SCHOOL BASIC COURSE OF INFORMATICS
The article deals with the issue of teaching the information processes department in the computer science course in the basic secondary school.
Methodological features of teaching information processes department according to the curriculum with updated content are given.
The use of digital technologies increases students' interest in lessons and allows them to develop their creative abilities.
In this regard, teaching of the "Information processes" section through digital technology is considered in the computer science course of the basic secondary school.
The purpose and objectives of training the department of information processes through digital technology are clarified.
In the course of teaching this part, the knowledge and skills that students develop are given.
Practical work in teaching information processes consists of tasks in the form of reports.
These tasks were prepared with the help of digital technologies. These tasks allow students to develop critical thinking, perform multi-level tasks, and differentiate learning.
Keywords: information, information processes, curriculum with updated content, digital technology, information and communication technology, educational resource.
Today, the world is entering the era of the fourth industrial revolution, a period of deep and intensive changes in the technological, economic and social spheres.
New possibilities of development in the fourth industrial revolution state that the new technological state is fundamentally changing how we work, how we exercise our civil rights, and how we raise our children [1].
Forming an information society is becoming a necessary condition in the period when information and communication technologies are widely used and rapidly developing for the exchange of information and communication between people in accordance with modern requirements.
The main requirement of the information society is to provide students with the basics of information knowledge, to develop logical thinking, algorithmic thinking abilities, to form the skills of using information technology, and to educate the student society to be information literate and adapt to the current of the century, that is, to adapt to the information society.
We understand that information technology is a set of mathematical and cybernetic methods and modern technical tools that provide information collection, storage, processing and transfer based on modern computer technology.
Communication is a general concept that includes the methods and mechanisms of information transfer and the devices for recording them.
The functions of the general educational process in the context of information and communication technology are determined by: teaching, education, development, information forecasting and development of creative abilities.
Areas of information, communication and interactive technologies of education:
- electronic textbooks;
- telecommunication technologies;
- multimedia and hypertext technologies;
- distance learning (management) Internet.
In the introduction of information and communication technology to the educational process, new goals are set before the teacher:
- creation of teaching-methodical electronic complexes in their subject, opening methodical subject Web sites;
- use of public computer networks;
- creating software sites and tools using innovative methods in the programming environment. (multimedia and hypertext technologies).
- provision of independent additional education during distance learning (Internet network).
The use of information, communication and interactive technologies of education is the only way to improve the educational process based on supplementing the content and form of pedagogical activities.
The use of computer networks, the Internet system, electronic textbooks, multimedia technologies, distance learning technology creates conditions for the creation of a space of digital technologies in educational institutions.
In recent years, the use of computers, electronic textbooks, and interactive whiteboards in daily lessons in accordance with modern trends has given good results.
The educational system is implemented through electronic communication, information exchange, Internet, e-mail, teleconference, and online classes.
Today, by using innovative methods and digital technologies, the main goal is to increase the student's thinking ability, develop his curiosity, arouse his interest, and increase his activity.
For this purpose, the use of digital technologies in the teaching of computer science departments increases the interest of students in the lesson and develops their creative abilities. In this regard, we consider the teaching of the "Information Processes" department using digital technology in the computer science course of the basic secondary school.
Now we will focus on the methodological features of teaching the "Information processes" department.
Here it is important to note that the learning process is characterized by the active activity of students within the framework of updating the educational content.
In this case, the teacher is the organizer of cognitive activities of students.
The new standards are based on the competence approach, and the structure of the training programs has changed accordingly:
We act according to the expected result, not from the prescribed educational material that must be mastered.
This means that the learner's perception has changed, i.e. transition from dominant authoritarian to cooperative learning [2].
To raise the level of information literacy during the teaching of the subject "Informatics" at the basic secondary education level (learning the methods of searching, obtaining and presenting information, including text, numbers, sounds, and information presented in visual form);
to know and understand the basics of ICT skills (using computers and other ICT tools) in solving informational problems;
special attention should be paid to mastering algorithmic and logical thinking (acting according to the algorithm and constructing the algorithm).
The content of the program in the discipline "Informatics" with updated content includes: computer systems, information processes, computational thinking, health and safety.
The department of information processes consists of the following two departments: presentation and measurement of information, creation and transformation of information objects.
The task of training the department of information processes is to form students' understanding of the role of information processes in society, technical possibilities and perspectives of using information technologies in various spheres of human activity.
We will focus on the main issues to be considered in the training of the department of information processes.
The theoretical part of the department "Information processes" consists of the following, which is based on revealing the content of information technologies and solving the problem: information concept, information measurement, information process, information coding.
The practical part of the department is aimed at developing students' skills in using information technology tools, which is important not only for the formation of functional literacy, but also for their socialization and further development, as well as for increasing the efficiency of mastering other academic subjects.
When you study this part of computer science in a basic high school, you will learn mathematics, history, social sciences, physics, biology, etc. interdisciplinary connections between disciplines are considered.
In addition, the relevance of reading this section is aimed at meeting the needs of modern times, effectively solving the actual problems of students and meeting the social order of the society.
In this regard, our main goal is to teach the department of information processes with the help of digital technology, that is, to improve the quality of education using digital resources for the education of this department. In the course of teaching this department, it is intended to solve the following tasks of improving the quality of education using digital resources:
- Formation of the knowledge system about the main concepts of the "Information processes" department; - formation of knowledge and skills in determining the amount of information using digital resources for education;
- formation of mastery of the main types of activities necessary for successful activities in the information society using digital resources for education;
- formation of understanding of the importance of mastering information and communication technologies for future professional growth using digital resources for education;
- understanding the need to observe legal and ethical standards when working with information using digital resources for education;
- acquiring knowledge that forms the basis of scientific ideas about information, information processes, information volume using digital resources for education;
- to learn methods for determining the amount of information using digital resources for education;
- demonstrate practical application of the material studied using digital technologies;
- working with various information using a computer and other means of information and communication technologies (ICT), organizing one's own information activities and planning its results;
- development of cognitive interest, intellectual and creative abilities through ICT;
- training of the responsible relationship of information distribution, taking into account the legal and ethical aspects;
- development of permanent cognitive interest in the subject of informatics through practical application of digital technologies appropriate to the topic;
- compliance with safety and hygiene requirements when working with computers and other information technology tools;
- to know the main psychological characteristics of a person in receiving information;
- evaluation of information, including information received from the media;
- Improving the level of education and continuing education using ICT.
The place of informatics in the value system of the student focused on the educational system affects the development of the individual.
There will be digital resources for the use of a set of methods and methods that will allow the teacher to form an educational activity based on the needs of students and the social order of society to develop the creative abilities of students.
The following methods can be used when conducting lessons based on digital technologies:
- oral teaching method (conversation, explanation, lecture, conversation);
- visual methods (illustrations, presentation of visual aids, presentations, tables, pictures);
- practical methods (oral and written exercises, practical work);
- active methods (analysis of control situations, problem solving, algorithm training);
- inductive and deductive.
Each method is considered as a system of special methods.
Methods of general organization of educational activities (listening, monitoring methods, planning work with a computer, textbook, retelling, self-monitoring, organizing homework) and methods of cognitive activities (attention, memory, oral description, explanation, problems and methods of formulating problems, receiving reflection, using images, opinions, concepts) are used.
Different forms are used to organize students' educational activities in lessons: individual, pair, group work.
The organization of individual activities allows taking into account the abilities and educational needs of each student, and collective work helps each student master the curriculum [3,4].
Also, conditions are created for the implementation of the main principles of the individual oriented technology of education.
This is shown below: - creating an atmosphere of mutual interest in the work of the student and the teacher;
- to evaluate not only the final (correct, incorrect) result of students' actions, but also the process of achieving it;
- creation of pedagogical conditions of group and intra-group communication in groups that allow each student to work.
In order to stimulate the potential activity of students in research work, other pedagogical technologies, in particular, problem-based learning and information and communication technologies of learning;
use of digital technologies; development of the thinking process, formation of internal motives, mental activity of students, creative abilities;
formation of non-standard thinking is used.
The result of students' actions is to understand the meaning of information and information processes, quantitative measurement of information, ways of solving problems with difficulties.
The content of information processes consists of a theoretical part and practical works in the form of practical work and reports.
The practical use of the content of the calculations in life arouses students' interest in the subject and increases their creativity.
Practical work tasks allow to develop critical thinking, to use an individual-oriented method, to perform multi-level tasks, to differentiate learning.
This affects the formation of functional literacy, the formation of general educational skills of students.
With the help of digital technology on the information carrier, it is possible to prepare tasks in the following way and make it possible for students to learn on their own by using them during the lesson.
In the topic of types of information, its types can be considered according to the way of reception, form of presentation and meaning.
Types of information according to the way of receiving information:
through sight, sound, touch, taste and smell.
According to the form of presentation, information is divided into digital, text, graphic, audio and video information.
In the teaching of these topics, tasks can be prepared and used in the following way with the help of digital technologies (pictures 1, 2).
Training of information processes department using such digital technology includes the following system of activities:
- realization of awareness, intellectual thinking works (analysis, synthesis, analogy), control and formation of experience by forming a thinking system;
- processing by searching for solutions to problems;
- providing general education, working with information through interaction (dialogue, listening, asking questions);
- self-organization by planning actions to achieve own goals, self-analysis, self-monitoring, reflection.
The use of digital technologies in the lesson is the student's own work;
get a lot of knowledge in a short time and save time;
checking knowledge and skills through test tasks;
creating creative reports;
the possibility of distance learning;
the ability to quickly obtain the necessary information;
allows to expand the student's worldview.
FEATURES OF USE OF DIGITAL EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES IN SECONDARY SPECIAL EDUCATION PLACES
The article is devoted to the features of using digital educational resources in secondary special educational institutions.
A general explanation of the digital educational resource is provided, defining its features used in the educational system.
In the course of teaching with digital educational resources, the learner's possibilities of use and its effectiveness are described.
CBR during preparation for the lesson;
assembling and designing lessons from individual digital objects;
use of additional and reference information;
Preparation for the teacher is a significant help for the teacher in the preparation of distribution material, which is often the most difficult process.
In addition, the use of digital educational resources in the educational environment allows to change the quality of educational content, methods and organizational form of education.
It is said that the tools of pedagogic activity will be implemented, and it will increase the quality and effectiveness of teaching.
Keywords: information, information technologies, digital education, digital education resource, secondary special educational institution, educational system, digitalization
The modern education system is increasingly focusing on improving the quality of education, giving priority to the student in the learning process, and satisfying his demands, requests, and interests.
In the 21st century, in the century of scientific and technical progress, due to the active penetration of information and communication technologies into the sphere of society, the world society in its history of development, the information society, the dynamic development of information technologies, as a traditional effective additional tool for the new teaching period, is a tool that many teachers introduce into their methodological system with maximum preparation.
The use of digital educational resources makes it possible to open new opportunities that increase the effectiveness of the educational period.
Digital educational resources are a visual tool in teaching, the organization of monitoring and surveying of students, which increases the ability of students in practice, as well as monitoring and evaluating homework, working with drawings, tables, graphs, conventional signs, etc., sorting texts and errors in students' creative works. is an assistant in correction.
The use of digital educational resources in the educational environment allows to change the quality of educational content, methods and organizational form of education.
Pedagogical service tools are implemented, the quality and efficiency of teaching increases.
Digital learning resources have many features compared to traditional learning, and the purpose of digital learning resources is to strengthen the intellectual capabilities of the learner in the information society, and also to improve the quality of all levels of the educational system.
In the privatization of e-educational resources, the principle of using them to improve students of a special educational institution is considered as the need to create conditions for the realization of a personal educational trajectory from that educational institution.
This principle assumes the use of modern electronic educational resources to improve the self-monitoring skills of students of a special educational institution, to form the skills of working with information based on personal meaningful content and personal process.
When we talk about digital learning resources, we think about electronic learning resources.
This is because the concepts of digital and e-learning resources are synonymous.
By studying the literature related to the definition and description of digital educational resources, digital educational resources offer the following opportunities in the organization of the educational process:
- placement of a large amount of information (this is especially relevant for the creation of electronic interactive encyclopedias);
- quick search and access to necessary information;
- visual presentation of many complex processes and phenomena;
- use of graphic processing;
- sight, hearing, etc. presented in different ways. receiving information at the same time;
- organization of various types of educational activities with independent education and presentation;
- objective and qualitative examination of students' knowledge with the help of testing, for example;
- managing the individual process of learning.
Another important feature of digital educational resources is their interactivity, that is, the ability to establish interviews and feedback.
A high level of interactivity makes the user feel not only the ability to control the course of events, but also a sense of responsibility for the obtained result.
This allows the learner to move from passive acceptance of information presentation to active participation in the educational process.
Features of establishing interactive interaction with electronic educational resources include:
- manipulation of screen objects using the mouse;
- online navigation: scrolling forward and backward within the screen;
- or transition from one screen to another (slide);
- hierarchical navigation:
select chapters using the tree menu;
- interactive help called by the buttons on the navigation panel (the most effective is the context-dependent help);
- feedback:
The resource evaluates the correctness of the task and responds to the user.
Feedback in the triad "Teacher - digital educational resource - learner" can be applied to both the teacher and the student.
Information received from the digital knowledge base allows the learner to respond to the impressions received during the exercises, to draw conclusions about the success of the degree in the student's educational activities.
Assessment helps the student and prompts him to correct the results of his learning activities, to reflect.
Information from the digital knowledge base to the learner, effective advice and quality solutions in counseling can tell about the correct result, implementation of another method, demonstration help, explanation, reference algorithm or share effective methods, etc.
The result of the work report, information about the correctness of the digital knowledge resource presented to the student in the form of possible or possible error versions.
The information received by the teacher from the digital educational resource is taken into account in order to correct the methods of organizing the activity of the student and the mode of operation of the digital educational resource.
The interactivity of digital educational resources (DRE) provides the opportunity to optimize the learning process and make it as personalized as possible. The hypertext of the digital educational resource material allows the learner to adjust the amount of educational material, learning process, mode of educational activities, etc. depending on their interest abilities, level of preparation. allows self-adjustment.
This is important for education, because the difference in the readiness of learners is noticeable by the level of development.
CBR offers various sources of information: texts, sets of tasks and exercises, videos, photos, audio recordings, interactive models and maps do not replace the teacher, but fundamentally change the nature of pedagogical activities.
The use of high-quality CBR can be used in the entire range of modern information technologies in various types of educational activities, including registration, collection, storage, information processing, interactive interviews, modeling of objects, processes, phenomena, etc.
Any stage of the lesson includes new technical tools and appropriate visual aids:
CBR is significantly enlivened by the use of audio, video, materials, slides.
The use of CBR makes it possible to transform the lesson, to enrich it in terms of content, to provide visibility of education, to manage students' own work on the principle of a new level of organization, to increase the individualization of education, to evaluate the results of the student's activities with the help of computer testing.
Unlike traditional methods of educational quality assessment, computer testing can significantly reduce the time needed to process the results of educational monitoring; to automate the process of checking answers:
allows to minimize the subjective opinion of the teacher.
CBR during preparation for the lesson;
assembling and designing lessons from individual digital objects; use of additional and reference information;
preparation for the teacher is a significant help for the teacher in the preparation of handouts, which is often the most difficult process.
Targeted and systematic use of CBR in the teacher's professional activity opens up opportunities to activate and visually use various types of student activity in the classroom, the main of which is independent and research activity.
Outside of class, CBR is used during individual work of the student (for example, using a tutoring program, using electronic encyclopedias and definitions, development programs), to eliminate the time missed in the lesson, to improve the specific mental processes of the student (attention, memory, thinking etc.) students to make public speeches, reports, abstracts, presentations, educational projects, etc. can be used to monitor students themselves at any time convenient for them.
In the teaching system of the use of CBR, it is necessary to join the target process of education in learning various educational subjects, to match the didactic purpose of the lesson, and to realize the rational solution of the set tasks.
So, the positive aspects of using CBR in the classroom:
- high interactivity in terms of providing new quality of education aimed at modern education, wide-scale use of visual tools and new types of tasks for students' independent work; - focusing on new educational results - competence that shows students' ability to solve their own problems in each type of activity - providing levels of educational differentiation and personalization opportunities;
- taking into account the psychological-pedagogical characteristics and cultural experience of students; - work with information presented in various forms (graphs, tables, composite texts of various genres);
- organization of learning activities using a wide range of individual and group research activities.
The digital educational resource cannot replace the teacher, but offers additional materials to the teacher, that is, to supplement the lesson content with new multimedia features of information and communication technologies, to draw the attention of students to the most important educational topics, if necessary, to focus the students' attention on the features of the studied scenes, to show it visually, the content of the lesson is related to the changes taking place in society, life experiences, students' interest in the subject, etc. to ensure connection with phenomena and the use of digital educational resources allows to effectively increase the quality of education.
DEVELOPMENT OF NANOTECHNOLOGY BASED ON DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY IN KAZAKHSTAN
As today's information technologies rapidly develop, innovative new technologies that advance the national economy have begun to come to life.
In recent years, in order to create a digital economy, the leading countries of the world have started to accelerate the development of nanotechnology and to widely use its possibilities.
By discovering the possibilities of nanotechnology, world scientists are inventing new technology and new nanoproducts necessary for humanity.
Foreign experience shows that it is possible to produce highly productive, competitive and high-quality products by digitizing production systems that produce such nanoproducts.
Also, a number of researches in the implementation of nanotechnology are being conducted in the country.
One of the main goals in the future will be the widespread development of nanotechnology in our country using the possibilities of digital technology.
Keywords: nanotechnology, digital technology, nanomaterial, graphene, nanostructure, nanoscale, new methods of nanotechnology
Today, the world economic system has undergone changes, and mutual competition has intensified in all directions.
In particular, the introduction of digital technology into life has intensified competition in the fields of economy, education, science, and information.
In recent years, interest in nanotechnology has grown in many countries of the world, and it has become known that using the achievements of nanotechnology, any item necessary for everyday life can be produced in a high-quality and efficient manner.
Although many of us have heard this term often, it seems that we have not deeply understood its meaning.
For example, if we divide the meter, which is used to measure the length of various objects, into 1000 parts, we get millimeters.
Now if we divide that one millimeter again into 1000 parts, it is called a micron.
If we divide the micron again by 1000, we get a measurement called a nanometer.
Therefore, 1 nanometer is one billionth of a meter, i.e. 10-9 m.
It is known that the smallest particle of matter is an atom.
The distance between these atoms that make up the molecule is about 0.14 nanometers.
Thus, with the help of nanotechnology, by affecting the physical properties of any substance at the atomic level, it is possible to produce other substances with different properties, i.e., stronger durability, of higher quality.
So what is nanotechnology?
If we are looking for an answer to the question, nanotechnology is science, engineering and technology, which together conducts research and production at the nanoscale (1-100 nm).
For example, if the thickness of a sheet of newspaper is 100 thousand nm, the diameter of DNA in the human body is 2.5 nm, the thickness of one strand of human hair is 80-100 nm, and the diameter of one atom of gold is 0.33 nm [1].
The idea and proposal for the development of nanotechnology and nanoscience was first raised by the famous American physicist, Nobel laureate Richard Feynman on December 29, 1959 at the meeting of American physicists held at the California Institute of Technology.
In his lecture, Feynman expressed his scientific predictions about the coming time when scientists can control the molecules and atoms of matter.
The term nanotechnology was first used by the Japanese physicist Norio Taniguchi in 1974.
A Japanese professor who designs machines that work with extreme precision has used the term nanotechnology in his research.
And the first molecular nanorobots were built in 1970 by American engineer Kim Eric Drexler.
Currently, nanotechnology is in great demand.
Because thanks to the achievements of nanotechnology, it is possible to effectively solve the problems of genetics, medicine, cloning, influencing bacteria in microorganisms and obtaining new materials for mechanical engineering, electronics, agriculture and other industries, raising all types of technology and production to a new quality level [2].
The USA, Japan, Germany and South Korea are recognized as leading countries with advanced nanotechnology science.
China, which is rapidly developing in any field, is not going to be left behind.
One of the three most used words associated with high technology in China is nano.
If the word "nano" appears in any product, it will be in great demand.
You can even find goods such as nano-gas, nano-cup, and nano-toothpaste in stores.
Currently, 1,600 scientific and technical companies and firms, laboratories and centers are engaged in nanotechnology research.
28 percent of them are in the USA, 24 percent in Japan, 10 percent in Great Britain, 9 percent in Germany, and 5 percent in Austria.
France, Italy, and China each account for 3 percent, and other countries, including Russia, account for 14 percent.
And Kazakhstan cannot even enter into those fourteen percent [3].
We can see the progress of modern nanotechnology in the products we use every day.
In factories, this nanotechnology is also used in the production of building materials, as a result of which durable, strong and unprecedented quality products are obtained.
For example, high-quality, durable and lightweight concrete is now being made using nanotechnology.
The durability of such concrete is guaranteed for 500 years.
We can say that nanoproducts, i.e., various glazes, varnishes and heat-insulating materials, are already widely used in the field of construction.
One rapidly developing field of nanotechnology is medicine.
A working prototype of artificial muscle fibers has already been created.
British doctors are preparing to conduct the first clinical trials in Europe using human embryonic stem cells.
This will be used to eliminate local diseases.
Scientists have come closer to the treatment of cancer, as the ability to transport nanoparticles of various molecules to the desired body tissues has been discovered, and a method has been found to cleanse the blood of toxins for several hours using nanomagnets and others.
In addition, scientists have invented completely new ways of using graphene, which is considered a special type of nanomaterial.
Thus, researchers from Northwestern University (USA) achieved a special type of hair dye based on this ultra-thin modification of carbon. "Graphene-based paint has additional advantages," say American researchers.
According to them, since each hair is like a small wire that can conduct heat and electricity, hair dyed with graphene easily dissipates static electricity and the problem of hair electrification is about to be solved.
It is said that the hair dye created thanks to these nanotechnology achievements does not cause any harm to human health.
Graphene made its way into the fashion and beauty industry in 2017, when the British company CuteCircuit introduced items made of the surprising material, the "Graphene dress".
"Graphene dress" clothes changes color when the wearer breathes thanks to graphene with LED.
Graphene can simultaneously perform two functions in clothing:
regulates the breathing rate and also provides an LED that changes the color of the clothes.
In addition, one of the main needs of today - graphene allows to obtain inexpensive, reliable and environmentally safe energy sources.
Thus, graphene composites make it possible to create efficient solar panels.
The largest technology companies are looking to put lithium-ion batteries in smartphones.
Innovative technology allows you to quickly charge the battery and keep the charge longer.
Graphene can also be used as a membrane for filtering hydrogen atoms in the air and producing biofuel.
Nanotechnology has a lot of achievements in biological science.
In 2016, Chinese scientists fed silkworms with graphene-infused leaves.
As a result of the experiments, a strong and well-conducting electronic granule silk thread was obtained.
At the same time, it is approaching the solution of great tasks, such as distinguishing the sequence of DNA sequences.
In the US, nanotechnologists have begun to produce nanotitanium implants for use in dentistry.
The material of such implants is stronger than the existing material, and also quickly unites with bone tissue [4].
In recent years, special attention has been paid to the science of nanotechnology in Kazakhstan.
The study of nanostructures has been conducted since 2003 under the basic research program of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 10 leading higher educational institutions of the country, engineering laboratories equipped with modern equipment were opened.
A national nanotechnology laboratory was organized at the Institute of Physics and Technology, which is part of the Information Technology Park in the Alatau village near Almaty, in order to group scientific teams that have achieved certain achievements in nanotechnology research and coordinate their work.
Research here is carried out according to programs consisting of real projects.
In 2007-2008, 15 scientific laboratories in the field of engineering were created and started working in domestic higher educational institutions.
More or less funds have been allocated to this field from the republican budget.
Electron microscopes, spectrometers, etc. tools were purchased.
Thanks to this, it can be said that Kazakh scientists have mastered nanotechnology and are not empty handed of discovering new things.
One of the first proofs of this was the doctor of biological sciences, professor Murat Kurmashhuly, who together with his colleagues developed medicinal nanocapsules.
Its peculiarity is that if a small part is applied to the diseased heart, the patient will quickly recover from a heart attack.
Scientists of Kyzylorda State University named after Korkyt Ata created natural polymer films using nanotechnology methods. These will be environmentally friendly substances.
At the Kazakh-British Technical University, the development of solar batteries with an energy efficiency of more than 30 percent has been undertaken.
Before that, research in this field was carried out by opening laboratories of "Nanoengineering research methods" at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, K. Zhubanov Aktobe State University and M. Kh. Dulati Taraz State University. For the purpose of training and preparation of specialists in nanotechnology, a special instrumented laboratory named "Nanoeducator-II" equipped with a scanning tunneling microscope and an atomic force microscope is being created and working.
At Taraz State University, physico-chemical studies of construction, composite materials and food products are conducted today with the help of electron microscopes and X-ray microanalysis.
A Japanese electronic microscope JSM7500F was purchased for the educational institution at the expense of funds allocated by the state.
It should be noted that there are only two such microscopes in Kazakhstan, the second of which is at the Republican Research Institute of Nuclear Physics.
Although this is a point of pride, this microscope cannot be said to be advanced today. Because in Japan this tool is considered obsolete.
International conferences related to nanotechnology are held in several cities of the country. However, we still don't have any products worth talking about that are actually made and put into production.
If so, we believe that the future of nanotechnology science in Kazakhstan is still ahead.
We believe that development of new production centers based on digital technology based on today's nanotechnology achievements is one of the future goals.
FORMATION OF PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE IN FUTURE IT TEACHERS
The article deals with the process of formation of professional competence of future computer science teachers.
In the study, the structure and functions of the process of developing the professional competence of future informatics teachers are shown, design methods and pedagogical conditions are presented.
The author analyzes different approaches of leading scientists to the issue of the meaning and content of the concept of "informational competence" of the computer science teacher.
The article also presents the professional competence system of the computer science teacher.
The author defines the principles of creating a model for the formation of professional competences of "future informatics" teachers, and also determines that the effectiveness of the process of developing the professional competences of future informatics teachers can be ensured by a set of organizational and pedagogical conditions.
The technology proposed by the author for the process of forming the professional competence of a future computer science teacher consists of four stages:
theoretical-preparatory, motivational, practice-preparatory, design.
Keywords: model, competence, computer science teacher, professional competence of future computer science teachers, basic competence, professional training of computer science teacher.
The new educational reform in our country aims to create a new national model aimed at forming a creative and developed individual, to move from "education for everyone" to "education for everyone for life".
The task of a modern teacher is to form an educated, creative, competent and competitive person who is flexible to live in the age of rapid development of science and technology, ready to fully realize himself for the benefit of society.
Only highly qualified, competent and competitive teachers can fulfill this duty.
The professional competence of the teacher is measured by the comprehensiveness of his knowledge, teaching skills, mastery of new methods of teaching, innovative technology.
The more educated and creative a teacher is, the wider his competence will be. The choice of tools for assessing the level of preparation of the future teacher to demonstrate the developed competencies is related to the choice of the content of the concepts of "competence" and "competence", which are comprehensive in many cases.
If we consider these concepts in the framework of professional education, its content can be determined as follows [1].
A.F. Prisyazhnaya says that in the science of pedagogy, competence is considered as its integrative property, which determines the functions and authority of a person in a certain sphere.
In general, about the concept of "competence", scientist K. Kudaibergenova said, "The concept of competence is a concept that has been introduced in the field of pedagogy in recent years as a result of paying special attention to the subjective experience of a person.
The translation of competence from the Latin language "competens" means a well-informed expert in a certain field and can authoritatively make a decision on some questions.
B. Turgynbaeva defines this as "...the ability to use the knowledge gained through practical actions in solving one's life problems - we call it competences", Russian scientist N. From Kuzmina's point of view, "Competence is the knowledge and dignity of a teacher that can be the basis for the development of another person."
Sh. Taubaeva: "Competence is an integrated quality of a person, based on the knowledge and experience acquired during the process of education and socialization, defined as his general ability and readiness for action."
It is a well-known principle that the nature of pedagogical activities requires creativity.
From the point of view of the development of a person's creative abilities, it creates a real condition for the enrichment, improvement, and recognition of the intellectual, emotional, and spiritual potential.
Due to this, the purpose of professional training of teachers also changes.
The process of formation of professional competence includes the formation of professional knowledge, skills, actions, the teacher's general cultural development, his own attitude, and the formation of valuable personal professional qualities [2].
About the word "competence" in the sectoral scientific explanatory dictionary of Kazakh language terms:
"competence" is generally defined as the ability to perform a task or do something.
Translated from the Latin language, it means "competence - mastery of one's business, knowledge, experience".
A person who has mastered the competence in a certain field can be considered a person who, armed with knowledge and qualifications in his field, can make some kind of foundational thoughts and conclusions and can act effectively.
Now if we analyze the meaning of these concepts in depth, then "competence" is a person's knowledge, qualifications, skills and competences related to a certain field of activity.
Competence means being well-informed, expert in a certain field, capable of making an authoritative decision on any issues.
It can be said that professional competence is a combination of personal areas of the teacher and his psychological-pedagogical and theoretical knowledge, professional qualifications and skills, and experience [3].
Professional competence includes the following abilities:
 Oriented competence (civic activity, understanding of the political system, ability to evaluate, philanthropy);
 Cultural competence (ability to recognize national peculiarities, to compare and distinguish between the culture of one's own people and other nations, world culture);
 Learning - cognitive competence (ability to organize one's educational abilities, ability to plan, mastering the skills of search - research activity, analysis, ability to draw conclusions);
 Communicative competence (knowing the methods of interaction with people, having communication skills in the Kazakh language as the state language, in international relations in a foreign language);
 Information-technological competence (the ability to navigate with the help of information technologies, technical objects, to independently search, select, analyze, change);
 Social and labor competence (ability to analyze social and public situations, to make decisions, to be able to influence the individual and the interests of society in various life situations);
 Ability to develop personality (ability to have active knowledge and experience in the field of family work, economic and political social relations) [4].
The professional competence of the teacher is recognized in different ways in daily pedagogical activities and is realized in different ways.
By the professional competence of a teacher, we understand the qualities of a person consisting of three interrelated components:
 professional education realized in pedagogical value;
 professional qualification;  valuable professional qualities of the teacher.
These three components are combined with the goal of developing the teacher's personality, and each component serves as a prerequisite, a tool, and a result in the process of pedagogical value.
The process of formation of professional competence means formation of professional knowledge, skills, skills, general cultural development of the teacher, his personal attitude and professional qualities.
A.K. Markova's agreement to explain professional competence, its own activity component - business skills, allowed the author not only to distinguish eleven groups of business skills, but also to make them a "breakthrough" for all aspects of a teacher's work.
A.K. According to Markova, "profession is a form of historical emergence of activity necessary for society to ensure that a person acquires certain knowledge and skills and has the corresponding abilities and professional qualities" L.M. The model of a teacher's personality in the context of the "action-action-relationship-personality" scheme elaborated and developed by Mitina is divided into five important professional qualities, which define two groups of pedagogical abilities [5-6].
The situation that draws attention to oneself is, firstly, that the abilities themselves cannot directly be subjective factors determining the effectiveness of action, and secondly, orientation is placed alongside other personal qualities.
The professional competence of the computer science teacher is the integrative quality of the teacher's personality, which is reflected in the set of internal core competencies of the specialist formed in the process of professional training.
The process of forming the professional competence of the future teacher of computer science in the future of the university is carried out by the development of existing basic competences as high-level universal and generalized competence corresponding to many basic activities.
The analysis of special literature and the survey of respondents revealed that the qualification of a future computer science teacher is determined by three main competencies:
information is primarily reflected in the activity of structuring information, which is important in the context of professional and pedagogical activity;
communicative, which combines the general requirements for the development of preparation for the creation of a pedagogical process and the preparation of its content on the basis of computer science, and implements the tasks of organizing productive pedagogical interaction.
One of the promising directions for developing the professional competence of a future computer science teacher is the design of a professionally oriented didactic information environment.
The informational and didactic environment of the pedagogical university is a part of the informational and educational space of the university, is an integral system of organizing educational activity and self-organization of the subjects of the educational process, and informational and pedagogical resources that ensure standardization of future teachers and enable them to receive quality education. implements the process of teaching through [7-8].
Information resources didactic environment knowledge and information base, information-search and information and reference systems, automated library systems, electronic journals, expert systems, automated courses, training system, automated laboratory-practical, computer simulators, automated services of educational and scientific departments. Management systems are specialized tools for the development of these types of higher education and information resources.
Structural components of the informational and didactic environment of the Pedagogical University:
 refers to material and technical, subject and material conditions of organization of educational process, electronic means of educational communication;
 includes the system of subject-methodical, educational standards, educational programs, computer programs, educational-methodical literature;
 subject-management, determines the nature of involving the subjects of the educational process (teachers and students) in interaction in the organization of educational activities when using computer technology [9].
"Competence is not only professional knowledge, but the ability to develop a person's general culture and creative potential," sums up the well-known scholar T. G. Brahe.
Therefore, today's teacher should not only supplement his professional knowledge, but also constantly work creatively.
The law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" establishes the principle of multi-option in the selection of teaching forms, methods, and technologies, which allows teachers of educational institutions to use the optimal version for themselves, to create a pedagogical process with any model, even an author's model.
Mastering the new technology of modern education requires creativity from the teacher. And in order to work creatively, the teacher needs to improve his professional qualifications.
Organization of methodological work at all levels in an innovative direction has a great influence on the creative performance of the teacher's professional duties.
A teacher who improves his qualifications increases his knowledge, professional and methodological level of his general worldview, improves his psychological and pedagogical as well as methodological literacy.
The most important thing is to acquire these knowledge and skills in accordance with the requirements of the position of competence, and through those ways, they open the way to the development of their thinking system, creativity, and reflective practice.
Only then does the teacher's self-assessment level increase, self-determination and the need for continuous self-development [10].
Education is a continuous process without stopping.
We understand the education of the 21st century as the development of a person's interests, his own development.
This is the ability of every person to reconstruct himself creatively, to critically assess himself in terms of social demands, and to participate in changing the environment.
Through it, a person's intellectual and spiritual power develops and his personality is formed.
Education is the process of developing his creative potential for a teacher.
Neither development nor knowledge can be given to anyone.
Anyone who wants to achieve it needs to act and make efforts.
From this point of view, any education is self-education.
The development of creative potential is the basis for raising one's knowledge.
The teacher develops his creative potential and expands his competence.
Professional competence is a set of professional knowledge or individual-professional characteristics that determine the readiness and ability of a specialist to perform his professional pedagogical activity in accordance with the accepted standards and norms of society at that time.
We consider professional competence to be a teacher's ability to perform pedagogical activities at a very high level, and as a result of being able to engage in pedagogic relationships, the level of education and education of students is high.
Considering the process of education of future computer science teachers, it is possible to describe the model of competence of the graduate by the level of formation of general cultural, general professional and special competence.
If the first two types of competence are determined by the standard of education in the direction of "pedagogical education", then the last type is specific for each subject and is determined by the university itself [11].
During the training of future computer science teachers, the level of formation of special professional competence is determined by the level of development of universal teaching activities.
So, professional competence is teacher's qualification improvement, feeling of responsibility towards the society, constant striving for the highest level and constant search, ability to accept and apply innovation and newness, being able to inculcate those values in the child while conforming to human values.
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE QUALIFICATION OF A MODERN TEACHER
The main task in the field of modern education is to search for effective new methods of introducing innovations into the content of education and to train innovative teachers who can implement them. That is why the requirements for the qualifications of teachers are very high.
Innovative teachers should be individuals who can study all types of pedagogical activity and solve any pedagogical situation thanks to their knowledge, common sense, intelligence, culture, entrepreneurship, skill, strive to improve the result of the pedagogical process, and be innovative and creative.
At the same time, a qualified teacher should be well versed in information technologies in accordance with modern times.
This is because it is impossible to become a competent and comprehensive specialist without mastering the advanced technologies of teaching in the field of modern education.
Mastering the new technology affects the formation of the intellectual, professional, moral, spiritual, civil and many other human features of the teacher, and helps him develop himself and effectively organize the educational process.
That is, at present, mastering new technologies is the main requirement for the formation of a new teacher.
Key words: pedagogy, qualification, requirement, information technology, education, science, innovative teacher, student, information.
Pedagogical work is a very sensitive and sacred work.
It demands from the teacher sensitivity, love for the child, vigilance that immediately recognizes the child's soul.
The main task of today's school is to form a life-oriented person who can openly express his own thoughts, and the teacher's love for his student and appreciation of him as a person can be the main guarantee for the development of the child's human qualities.
The 21st century is the century of fierce competition.
This age is an age that does not tolerate anger.
Therefore, the fate of an educated and resourceful person who can keep up with the rapid development of global competition is entrusted to us.
Not abusing the trust is a noble tradition of my people. ―...
For humanity, the 21st century will be the century of new technologies, and today's schoolchildren are your children, who implement, introduce, master and improve these new technologies. Nazarbayev.
Abubakir Divaev, a well-known orientalist who lived in the 19th century, said: "Unless the light of knowledge is spread, no country can become an advanced country."
Being a prosperous and civilized country of independent Kazakhstan depends on the development of today's young people into open-minded and educated citizens.
And the teacher is an important person who brings up those young people and gives them knowledge.
During the transition from quantity to quality, the teacher has the following requirements and duties:
 first of all, the teacher should be educated;
 to demand knowledge from students;
 to be an educated listener;
 also be a supporter of those on the path of education.
The bright ideal of every teacher is not only to provide education in his subject, but also to strengthen the creativity of every child, to create self-confidence of the child.
As mentioned above, currently the development of information and communication technology is a part of quality education.
In addition, it is impossible to imagine the field of education without the use of various technical means of teaching.
Therefore, updating the educational content in accordance with the requirements of time is the main task of today.
Currently, in the educational systems of the country, various works are being carried out in the direction of education and upbringing of the youth of the 21st century. That is why it is required to use new teaching technologies in education of students, to work in an innovative direction in accordance with modern requirements.
And the main goal of the teacher is to create a new model of education, to master a certain amount of knowledge and skills, to monitor the level of mastery of the educational material, to search for various new methods and methods of organizing the learning and educational process, to be able to effectively use new technologies in the classroom.
In recent years, the use of computers, electronic textbooks, and interactive boards in daily lessons in accordance with the trends of the information and communication age has given significant results.
The process of educational information science requires future specialists to constantly search, to learn to use information and communication technologies in the professional field, to be able to find and process the necessary information from information sources, to think creatively and to make decisions.
Teaching through the coordination of pedagogical and information and communication technologies includes discussion, group work, reflection, individual work with exercises and action plans.
All of these forms are intended to help you become more effective as a teacher.
"Nowadays, it is very necessary to provide young people with a new and relevant education related to information technologies according to the world standard", as our Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev emphasized, it is important to coordinate and increase the effectiveness of pedagogical technology and information and communication technology in the educational process in the education of the young generation.
So, the peculiarity of the coordination of pedagogical technology and information and communication technology will be the following:
- providing new information;
- mastering modern technology;
- search;
- performing work independently;
- development of imagination, critical thinking;
- formation of business and skills;
- increasing interest, enthusiasm; - teaching teamwork, etc.
Now "What should be the school and teacher of the century?" The answer to the main question is being sought.
It is often said that the modern school, which has moved to the national model of education, needs a thinker, a researcher, a business teacher who is skilled in pedagogical coordination in practical activities.
Now the times and society have changed.
The goals, values, and ideas of today's children are completely different from those of the past.
Because they are people who look at their future from the point of view of efficiency, are business-minded, and know how to make high demands.
Therefore, this society requires every teacher not only to be a deep expert in his field, but also to be a theoretical, normative-legal, psychological-pedagogical, didactic-methodically competent specialist who has fully mastered the possibilities of information computer technology tools.
The main task of modern subject teachers is to direct education to the result, that is, to master innovative new technology.
The teacher of the new formation is a creative teacher who has spiritual morals, ability to reflect, informational communication, social-personality and other competencies.
In addition, as mentioned above, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" states: "The main task of the education system is to create the necessary conditions for education aimed at the formation and professional development of an individual, on the basis of national and civic values and practical achievements, to introduce new technologies of education, information transmission, access to the international global communication network" - it is said.
In this regard, today's teachers have the task of not only mastering knowledge and skills, but also developing their perception, thinking, imagination, feelings, that is, a comprehensive, free, creative, competitive individual.
On August 18, 2005, in connection with the issue of training new qualified teachers necessary for the information society of the new century, the projects "Continuous pedagogical education concept of training new qualified teachers in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "Concept of higher pedagogical education in the Republic of Kazakhstan" were presented.
In the first of these two projects, a new respectable teacher is defined as a person who is spiritually mature, has high creative ability, can look at himself critically, has professional skills, pedagogical talent, and strives for innovation.
It is said that the ideal teacher is a person who clearly understands the value of education, a "highly cultured person", a master of his field, who has a deep knowledge of pedagogy and psychology, who can use pedagogical methods aimed at the individual, who should develop himself as an individual and have a great need for spiritual growth.
A professional teacher should not only know his subject well, but should also know the place of each interlocutor in the pedagogical process.
Attention is drawn to the fact that students should be able to organize their educational work, foresee its results, correct possible deviations in a timely manner, that is, be a competent person [19].
A new teacher must possess three different competencies:
methodological, general cultural, subject orientation. Creative direction of pedagogical activity,
first, to be able to assess the strengths and weaknesses (self-awareness, emotional state, communicative and didactic abilities, etc.) that are important for the teacher's profession;
secondly, mastering intellectual culture (thinking, memory, perception, attention), behavior, communication, including pedagogical communication;
thirdly, it is related to consideration of issues such as current integration processes, ability to guide development trends of world education.
Critical issues such as the place of consideration of the concept of a new quality teacher in theoretical works, the didactic conditions for the use of information technologies in the formation of a new quality teacher, the content of the use of information technologies are intended to find their solution.
According to the state program of educational development for 2005-2010, educational programs with the structure and content of international baccalaureate programs are created, credit and distance learning technologies are implemented.
I believe that in accordance with such changes in education, a new teacher should be able to coordinate traditional forms of education with information and communication and other innovative technologies.
The main task in the field of modern education is to search for effective new methods of introducing innovations into the content of education and to train innovative teachers who can implement them.
Innovative teachers should be individuals who can study all types of pedagogical activity and solve any pedagogical situation thanks to their knowledge, common sense, intelligence, culture, entrepreneurship, skill, strive to improve the result of the pedagogical process, and be innovative and creative.
The concept of a new kind of teacher can be found in the psychological and pedagogical literature in the form of the terms of a new type of teacher, a new generation teacher.
The definition of a new qualified teacher, published on August 18, 2005, "The Concept of Continuous Pedagogical Education for the Training of a New Qualified Teacher" and "The Concept of Higher Pedagogical Education of the KR" show two different approaches to the same issue. The authors of both concepts offer two different solutions to the same problem.
However, there are some overlaps.
They repeated each other in the "Higher Pedagogical Education" and "Higher Pedagogical Education Structure" sections of the requirements for new qualified teachers.
If the first concept names as negative factors "the lack of a scientifically based position on the creation of educational standards and programs that continue each other" , the authors of the second concept name "the imperfection of standards, typical educational programs...".
There are many such examples.
Therefore, it is necessary to create one based on these two concepts.
The highest goal of pedagogical education is continuous general and professional development of a new teacher.
During the implementation of this goal, the broken connection between a specialist-person, a citizen and his professional knowledge, business and skills should be resumed.
It is necessary to combine the personal position of the future specialist, his professional knowledge and business skills.
This combination is not a general combination, but a qualitatively new structure, with the goal of training and forming a new type of teacher with integrity and internal structure.
The purpose of pedagogical education, the invariant, idealized indicators of the teacher's personality and professional activity are revealed in the professionogram, which is the basis of the qualification description. The qualification description is created in the form of a system of typical professional pedagogical tasks and constitutes the general requirements for the teacher's personality and professional competence [1].
The master teacher, first of all, paid special attention to our people's moral worldview, their culture, customs, traditions, handicrafts and pedagogy, as well as their openness and brotherhood, that is, the ability of the Kazakh nation to absorb the values of other peoples. it's good
Secondly, he must learn the subject he teaches in depth.
Thirdly, he should be eager to learn by himself.
A teacher's personality should be a quality that is combined with professionalism.
This is because the relationship in any team is closely related to the personality model of the teacher.
Thus, the concept of a new dignified teacher is given in the form of "new type of teacher", "ideal teacher", "master teacher" in foreign and Kazakh pedagogic textbooks published in recent years, in scientific studies, but the term "new dignified teacher" is not considered in depth.
A new respectable teacher is a competent person who constantly improves the content of professional knowledge, has the ability to manage the educational process, as well as high personal and professional quality, who has mastered advanced technologies and uses them as he wishes.
It is impossible to become a competent and comprehensive specialist without mastering the advanced technologies of teaching in the field of modern education.
Mastering the new technology affects the formation of the intellectual, professional, moral, spiritual, civil and many other human features of the teacher, and helps him develop himself and effectively organize the educational process.
That is, mastering new technologies is the main requirement for the formation of a new teacher.
New technologies, including computers, are used at all stages of the learning process: when explaining new materials, confirming, repeating, monitoring knowledge, business and skills.
At the same time, for the student, it performs various functions: the activity of the teacher, working tools, educational object, team, game environment [2].
Computer as a teacher:
- a source of educational information (can partially or completely replace the teacher and the book);
- visual tool (at a qualitative new level with multimedia and telecommunication capabilities);
- independent information space;
- simulator;
- diagnostic and control tools.
The use of electronic textbooks also develops the scientific and methodological potential of the teacher and facilitates his work during the lesson.
Individual monitoring of the student through computer tests at each stage of education, graphic representation, texts, multimedia, video and sound programs help to implement the news [3].
E-textbooks are more convenient to use than traditional textbooks and have a self-checking system.
This is the advantage of this e-textbook.
Therefore, the system of self-examination replaces the communication between the student and the teacher.
The use of electronic textbooks not only increases the cognitive activity of students, but also creates conditions for creative work on the formation of a logical thinking system.
In the field of education until now, using only what the teacher said or the textbook does not meet the modern requirements.
Therefore, in today's information society, it is impossible to move forward without using these textbooks.
The effective use of teaching methods in the teaching process, the introduction of new teaching technology through the information system of the education system as a whole provides an opportunity for the full development of the teaching process.
In the teaching process, individual computer-based methods should be used effectively depending on the educational goals and conditions [4].
Thus, the development of information technologies helps the emergence of new methods and, at the same time, increases its quality.
The electronic textbook saves the student's time, does not have to search for study materials, and greatly contributes to recalling the materials that have been passed and forgotten by the student.
This is because the student has to write next to the effectively necessary element that he has used visualization.
The relevance of this technology is characterized by the increase in the speed of information of the society.
The use of new information technology in the classes of various subjects is distinguished by the updating of educational content, the formation of an information environment, as well as the possibility of providing high-quality education.
In the last period, modern pedagogical science and practice are undergoing radical changes.
Among them, the training process is aimed at forming a person who is knowledgeable and able to save time in accordance with the requirements of the 21st century, in a different way, in order to get a new look in information and communication situations.
The main goal of educational informatization is "full and effective involvement of students in the activities of household, social and professional spheres in the context of the information society."
One of the issues requiring research in the theory of higher school pedagogy is the issue of pedagogical modeling.
Modernization of higher education is primarily related to deep updating of its content.
We can say that not only the teacher of computer science, but also the mastery of information technology of any subject is the main sign of a new teacher.
Since the mastery of information technology of a new teacher is formed at a higher educational institution, it is necessary to ensure the information literacy of teachers, their professional level to meet modern requirements, ensure the information competence of students, and effectively organize their activities in all forms of education [5].
THE UPDATED PROGRAM IS AN INDICATOR OF QUALITY RESULTS IN EDUCATION
The article mentions the need to have a new system in the field of education in accordance with modern requirements.
In addition, the importance of the computer science course on the updated educational content and ways to achieve success in practical application are provided.
Also, ways to improve lesson plans are the most important factors in the implementation of the updated general education program.
The main issues that should be included in the lesson plan are described. The updated content includes an example of a specific topic in training.
Today, trilingualism is a necessity of the time, so the new program envisages students getting experience in three languages as well in computer science.
The structure of the lesson is described by presenting various methods.
In addition, it is said that teaching students by directing them to achieve results is different from traditional teaching.
Key words: computer science, organization of training, education, updated educational content, assessment, planning, effective education.
The field of education is constantly renewed and transformed, showing its results, spreading its roots like the roots of a giant tree and spreading its wings.
And in order to maintain such a large-scale character, advanced training courses are of great importance in showing the key to the up-to-date education of dedicated education specialists working in this field [1].
In the framework of updating the content of secondary education in the Republic of Kazakhstan, courses are held on the educational program of improving the qualifications of pedagogics in the subject "Informatics".
The purpose of these courses is to improve the knowledge of informatics specialists according to the updated program introduced in the field of education by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishuly "State program for the development of education and science in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019" [2].
Updated educational content is a promising new initiative.
That is to say, using effective pedagogic methods in education, every new material given to the student improves his/her future, is used in life and tries to achieve the final result.
In addition, every lesson will educate young people to be partisan and make them future-builders of the "Eternal Country" which is considered to be a set of main values that unite all Kazakhstanis and lay the foundation of the country's future, the national idea of our common Kazakh home.
This course determined what the teacher requires and what is required of the teacher for effective implementation of the updated educational content.
In addition, the content of the updated general education program, the structure of the curriculum and curriculum, the rolled-up principle of the educational program were fully described and brought to the level of practical application.
Based on the documents used in the updated general education program, within the framework of the rolled-up educational program, each teacher moves to education in accordance with the established educational goals.
Within the rolled-up curriculum here, subject topics are repeated at different levels, sometimes in one term, sometimes over several terms.
Topics are taught at the next level in more depth than at the previous level, and as the level increases, the complexity of the topic increases and the student's knowledge and skills increase.
The teacher uses the methods of effective learning and teaching in pairs, groups, dialogues, etc. by means of teaching, increases students' activity towards the lesson, establishes interdisciplinary communication, and makes efforts to satisfy the needs of students.
Informatics is a young branch of science that is continuously developing and updating day by day.
That is why the approach of using ICT in education, which is considered one of the main principles of the updated education program, has a special place for the subject of computer science.
That is to say, through the use of e-learning and new technologies, the learner is attracted to a specific field, forms an active student, and with the help of modern tools, has the opportunity to develop the student's mindset [3].
As an example, let's consider the teaching of SketchUp in the 7th grade computer science subject "Three-dimensional models" for creating 3-dimensional models, one of the computer programs that allows students to develop creative aspects.
SketchUp - simple three-dimensional objects adapted to the level of schoolchildren - buildings, furniture, interiors, etc. a free version of tools and components for creation, released in 2006 by Google and LastSoftware.
By participating in this lesson, students will achieve the following results:
concept of model;
 what is modeling, give concrete examples of it;
 types of modeling;
 the difference between 2d and 3d modeling and what program is used;
 SketchUp window elements;
 to independently model objects in SketchUp.
In conclusion, students will describe the importance of this program, its necessity and possibility in real life.
As a reflection, you can complete the topic with "Questions that require multiple answers".
This topic is interdisciplinary:
It closely interacts with subjects such as English, geometry, drawing, visual arts (Figure 1).
In the drawing class, if the students plan the models created in SketchUp by hand or in a simple drawing program (Fig. 2), they realize that they have drawn a two-dimensional object, and in the geometry class, they pay attention to its symmetry.
From the English language, the name of the program, i.e. "Sketch - drawing, sketching, drawing" means, including the name of the tools in English.
The system of evaluating the student's knowledge has undergone a radical change and will be transferred to the criterion evaluation system.
Criterion assessment will also measure student progress with specific indicators of pre-suggested criteria.
Students' progress is assessed in the following way: formative assessment and summative assessment.
The main advantage of this assessment system is that it helps the student to develop his thinking ability and engage in science.
Formative assessment is considered an integral part of the daily teaching and learning process and is regularly conducted every quarter.
Formative assessment provides continuous feedback between students and teachers and allows for correction of the learning process without assigning a score or grade.
Summative assessment is carried out by assigning points and grades in order to obtain information about the progress of a student who has completed, for example, sections of the curriculum, common topics and a certain period of study (term, academic year, secondary education level).
Formative assessment and summative assessment are used in all subjects.
Improvement of lesson plans in the implementation of the updated general education program is also considered the most important part of the course.
Because in education, the teacher, based on long-term, medium-term and short-term plans, paves the way to achieve the full goal of the lesson.
A long-term plan is for one academic year, a medium-term plan is for a semester or a quarter, and a short-term plan is written for daily lessons.
This planning is very important for the teacher, because it will be a guide to achieve educational goals and expected results for any subject [4].
When planning a lesson plan, the teacher anticipates the following things:
 what is the level of students before and after mastering that topic, including the vast majority of students and some students;
 creates assessment criteria;
 development of values through the topic;
 combining interdisciplinary communication and previous knowledge;
 considers several methods of organizing interest in the lesson;  give practical tasks and approve the lesson;
 Reflection means feedback.
In the meantime, let's emphasize the importance of reflection for students.
Reflection is the content and function of personal knowledge, such as paying attention to the student's actual self, the work he has done, his qualifications, personal structure (value, interest, motive), thinking and understanding, decision-making, and the mechanism of emotional indicators.
There are many methods used in reflection in pedagogy.
Let's take a brief look at these methods: 1. In the method called "Ladder of Success", you can write each stage separately on the board.
At the end of the lesson, the students can show the success of their work in the achievement ladder for each stage.
2. In the "Questionnaire" method, students are offered a small questionnaire, which can be supplemented in such a way that it can be changed, that is, it determines what special elements of the lesson should be paid attention to. Students can be asked to prove their answers.
3. In the "Questions requiring multiple answers" method, answers the following questions:
 Why was it difficult?
 What did I learn in the lesson, what new thing did I learn?
 Did your predictions come true in the lesson?
 What did you learn from today's lesson?
 What did the lesson leave you with?
4. "Island" method. An emotional concept map is drawn on a large white paper in the form of an "island" (joy, disappointment, fear, expectation, satisfaction, Bermuda triangle, etc.).
At the end of the lesson or at the end of the week, students depict their mood and emotional state by drawing with a marker (felt pen) on the conceptual "island" map hanging on the board or by hanging a picture of a ship.
5. "At the end of the speech, I have to say."
Students are given three questions to answer in sequence.
To what extent did your predictions come true in class, and who do you thank for this (besides the teacher)?
Why is it unclear? What do we and I expect in the future?
In addition, it is worth noting that one more feature of the updated educational content is that after finishing one topic or one chapter, the teacher and students should focus on discussing the topic and organizing a discussion.
As a collection of discussion and discussion methods, we recommend the following methods that are widely used in practice:
 Free discussion;
 Conversation in pairs;
 Three listening;  Question circle; Now let's mention the purpose and description of each method: 1. Free discussion method: Purpose: to praise the student's leadership and responsibility, to avoid the teacher from reusing the material. Description: This method can be done in small groups as well as with the whole class. Because it is unstructured, you may need help with this discussion. The teacher can provide help, but if the work is done in groups, the teacher may not be able to reach all groups.
Alternatively, one student could be asked to act as a facilitator, a technique that allows the student to gain positive experience of the student's actions and discuss key aspects of his or her behavior in this role.
2. Pair story:
Purpose: to formulate ideas, listen actively, and concentrate on discussion.
Using pairs allows students to speak up and help students who feel insecure in large groups. Description:
Use stimulating or specific questions and topics to discuss with students.
Actively listen and lead to a response.
Name A and B to indicate topic (eg A listens and B speaks, then vice versa.
Ask students to come up with a question they would like to answer individually, and then discuss the question in pairs.
3. Listening Triad: Purpose: This is a structured information retrieval exercise that develops understanding of the topic of conversation and process.
It also contributes to the development of self-exploration through the role of an observer.
Description: Students sit in groups of three. Each student plays the role of speaker, questioner and note taker.
The speaker says something, explains a question or expresses an opinion. The questioner helps and asks for clarification. The recorder selects the necessary parts and gives a conclusion at the end of the conversation. Next time, the roles change.
4. The framework of questions:
The goal:
Expression of ideas, development of listening exercises, all participants can participate, adjustment of learning environment.
Description: According to this method, students take turns asking questions. Students form circles of four or five people.
Give yourself some time to think about the topic.
Then start the discussion, each student will speak continuously for three minutes (or other time). No one is allowed to say anything at this time.
After everyone had said what they had to say.
Open topic for small group and shared discussion. The student's speech should be built on what the previous student said, not on their own, and they should not come up with new ideas.
To sum up, the updated educational program aims to produce a student as a versatile, educated person who has mastered both theory and practice, who knows three languages, who is sympathetic to society, who has his own independent thought and me. And for the community of teachers, it will be considered a promising program that will always be inquisitive, comprehensive, competitive, and will provide a unique direction in education and modern education of the intelligent generations of our country.
THE SPECIFICITY OF USING MOBILE LEARNING TECHNOLOGY IN EDUCATION
In modern times, the mass use of mobile technologies is becoming widespread. The mass use of mobile tools is a technique that cannot be found in the coverage and organization of the educational process.
In education, mobile technologies are a necessary tool for forming the information culture of a person.
Mobile technologies and mobile devices have become a part of everyday life.
Schemes created in mobile technologies are successfully applied to the educational process.
The advantage of new technologies is their light and compact application in education. The article describes the use of mobile technologies and Android systems in the educational process.
Keywords: mobile learning, Android operating system, Internet, Google Play Market applications, game program, Java language.
Informatics is a field of scientific knowledge that is rapidly developing in accordance with modern requirements, requiring teachers to introduce a new form of education into the content of education.
For example, in the process of teaching object-oriented programming, it is often taught using lectures and laboratory sessions in the traditional teaching format.
In modern education, these processes are not enough to develop programming as a subject.
Therefore, in the age of educational informatization, along with traditional teaching methods, it is necessary to use modern teaching technologies such as distance and mobile forms of organizing the teaching process.
The term "mobile learning" (m-learning) appeared in English pedagogical literature about 10 years ago.
Recently, this term has started to be used in our country as well.
According to many scientists and educators, the future of education is due to the availability of wireless Internet and mobile communication services, the availability of information and communication technologies that expand the quality and possibilities of education, in particular, the spread of mobile means of communication, the popularity of smartphones and iPhones, a large number of educational programs and applications, as well as gesture interfaces. will be associated with the emergence of new technologies [1].
One of the main conditions of education is, for example, students' understanding of how to use in practice the knowledge gained by performing laboratory work on the preparation of various application software products, the knowledge acquired in computer science within the curriculum of a higher educational institution.
In this regard, it is necessary to select a development environment for the platform that developed the product and prepare a cycle of laboratory work.
The prepared laboratory practice must meet the following requirements:
 deepening of previously acquired knowledge;
 increasing the interest of students in the subject of computer science in general, in particular programming, changing some old ideas to a new approach, going beyond the universally accepted idea of teaching in the program prepared on teaching programming within the university;
 visual representation of software product development and application area.
In this regard, the process of preparing game programs and applications for mobile devices should be included in the cycle of prepared laboratory works.
Technology is rapidly developing in today's modern world.
Especially it depends on the productivity and mobility of computer equipment.
Today's mobile phones are productive, that is, new processors, new operating systems, large and bright screens, no different from a desktop computer, and sometimes they are very suitable for performing specific tasks.
Google, Apple, Microsoft, Blackberry, Mozilla and other reputable companies and IT-industrial corporations are engaged in the preparation of operating systems and software products for modern mobile phones and tablets.
Currently, the very rapid development of the mobile market brings huge profits not only to the above-mentioned companies, but also to the developers of mobile applications.
To choose a platform for developing applications, it is very reasonable to pay for the most popular mobile applications in today's society.
According to statistics, the most popular operating systems for mobile devices today include operating systems such as Android, iOS, and Windows Phone. As of 2013, the share of sales of smartphones with the Android operating system was about 79% of the total.
Taking into account the rapid development and incredible popularity of the modern mobile market, it can be said that in 2013 a total of 998 million smartphones were sold [2].
Android is a phenomenon of information technology in the modern world:
Since 2007, it has taken only 6 years to surpass the mark of billions of active devices with this operating system worldwide, making it the fastest growing information project in history [3].
The Android operating system is intuitive, easy to learn, change and customize, constantly improved and updated.
Phones equipped with this operating system can install a modified version of the system (later and earlier releases, unofficially modified "firmware"), which means that the user's free actions are the main feature of Android.
The Android operating system is perfect for teaching programming.
The Android operating system is based on the kernel of the Linux operating system and the implementation of the Java programming language from the American Google corporation, which is considered one of the largest and most influential in the modern information technology industry.
The compiler can provide all the features for programmers, for example, on the official site of AOSP, it offers documentation on the preparation of applications for this platform (Android Open Source Project - an Android project with open current code).
Android is an open operating system that not only simplifies the process of learning it, but also prepares software for it.
In addition, a series of Android-based labs allows students to consolidate their previous knowledge of the Java programming language in class, as well as familiarize them with the concepts of object-oriented programming.
It should be noted that the popularity of the Android operating system is a great opportunity in our case. Today's modern world cannot be imagined without a mobile phone, today mobile phones are in the hands of everyone.
By writing a software product on his mobile phone, he awakens the student's enthusiasm for the subject and creates an interest in learning it.
Application distribution services such as Google Play Market allow developers around the world to share their software products for free and for free.
Students can prepare their own software products according to their wishes and sell them.
After choosing the operating system and programming language, a cycle of laboratory works is prepared.
After that, it is necessary to choose the methods of implementation of our project, the environment, additional tools for the preparation of the software product, as well as to determine the pedagogical components of the project and choose the methods and forms of training.
So today Android is the most popular mobile operating system, the number of requests for it is very high.
For example, in July 2013, the total number of applications placed on the Google Play Market marked the million mark.
The variety of built applications requires a variety of build tools.
Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans IDE can be mentioned among major IDEs (Integrated Development Environment).
In the process of selection, it is necessary to consider how familiar the students are with the training environment.
State Pedagogical University uses Eclipse IDE development environment, so we need to choose that environment to achieve our goal.
Generally, the Eclipse IDE development environment is not intended for developing Android applications.
For this, it is necessary to install Development Tools (ADT), an official plugin of Google Corporation, which is an official part of the Android SDK (Software Development Kit - a set of development tools), specially developed for Eclipse IDE.
During the pedagogical component of the project, a laboratory work system is developed that divides the game software product into several parts called modules.
This approach can be an example of the use of modular learning with specific topics, where all learning materials are divided into individual blocks.
Tasks can be at different levels, that is, there is also a type of training that is focused on the individual.
Each block of module training must have control tasks, that is, students pass a small test on the materials learned in laboratory work, answer control questions or execute programs based on the proposed principles.
Creating a game project develops logical and creative thinking, the student should choose the concepts of the game and think about the methods of its implementation from the beginning to the end, and feel himself as a producer of a large software product.
In addition, the development of a game software product is a very common learning method called "design method".
During the implementation of this method, the student is recommended to perform a certain set of work that requires the achievement of specific goals.
Each individual work included in the complex (project) requires a certain amount of time, some works can be performed only in a certain order.
For example, as you perform laboratory work, its complexity gradually increases.
The main goal of the design method is to increase the student's interest in a specific issue, leading to the acquisition of certain knowledge, for example, the student's knowledge of various game software products that he has encountered before.
Creating a game software product in Java is a process that allows students to learn programming in depth at a high, high-quality level, as well as to use methods of repeating previous knowledge and mastering new materials, to practice performance and creative thinking, to prepare applications for their mobile devices.
Thus, the laboratory practice prepared in the course of the research allows 1-2 year students to effectively teach the basics of programming using the Java programming language for the Android operating system.
PROBLEMS OF IMPROVING THE LOGICAL THINKING ABILITY OF MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENTS IN THE PROCESS OF TEACHING INFORMATICS AND MATHEMATICS
In this article: interdisciplinary connection of computer science and mathematics;
use of information and communication technologies in mathematics lessons;
logical thinking of middle school students in the process of teaching computer science and mathematics;
problems of improving logical thinking ability and their prevention are considered.
Problems of improving logical thinking ability of 5-6th grade students in mathematics class;
analysis of types of thinking according to the content of the problem, their connection and differences;
It is discussed that logical thinking takes a special place in tasks that do not require the use of logical discussion.
In addition, this article mentions the need to use information and communication technologies in the educational process to increase students' interest.
At the same time, the improvement of logical thinking and the ability to get out of difficult situations independently due to logic are described.
Keywords: interdisciplinary communication, information and communication technologies, logical thinking, logical task, types of logical thinking, features of logical thinking.
Currently, in the period of education reform, the main task is to educate a well-rounded person. It is probably not necessary to prove the importance of interdisciplinary connections in the educational process. They contribute to the formation of individual concepts in individual subjects, groups and systems, which are called interdisciplinary concepts , that is, to the formation of things that cannot be fully explained to students during lessons on any subject.
The use of interdisciplinary communication in the classroom helps to solve the assigned tasks.
Moving to a new stage of educational development, introduction of interdisciplinary connections by one teacher to computer science lessons is considered.
The educational process should be made in such a way that students use their knowledge in various fields of science for each task in each lesson. Integration entered pedagogy in the early 1980s.
The perception of this term by teachers was prepared by the development of integrative processes in education during the previous decades.
In particular, the penetration of mathematics, physics and informatics into other areas of education, as well as scientific and technical progress, the development of computer technology were the reasons for this.
Integration is the deepest possible integration and integration of generalized knowledge in one or another area in one teaching material.
The result of integration is a new reality in which each component retains its own characteristics.
Integration excludes destruction, subjugation, continuation of one within the other.
Integrated lessons provide the student with a broad and clear presentation of the world he lives in, mutual assistance, and the existence of a multifaceted world of material and literary culture.
It should be said that the use of interdisciplinary connections during the basic course of the computer science class increases the students' cognitive interest.
The need for integrated lessons arose from the following reasons:
First of all, children get to know the diversity and unity of the world around them, and the subjects of the school cycle, which are mostly aimed at learning the individual phenomena of this unity, cannot present a complete phenomenon, but only divide it into fragmented fragments.
Secondly, integrated lessons develop students' potentials, actively recognize the surrounding environment, encourage them to think and find cause-and-effect relationships.
Develops logic, thinking, communication skills.
Thirdly, conducting integrated classes is not standard, but interesting.
The use of various types of work during the lesson allows to maintain the attention of students at a high level, so it is possible to talk about the effectiveness of the lessons.
Integrated classes provide significant pedagogical opportunities.
Such lessons prevent fatigue and overwork of students due to substitutions between different types of activities, immediately increase cognitive interest, develop students' imagination, attention, thinking, speech and memory.
Fourth, integration in modern society requires integration in education.
Modern society needs high-quality, well-trained specialists.
To satisfy this need:
it is necessary to start appointing educated, well-trained specialists from primary classes, for that, it is necessary to create conditions for integration, implementing interdisciplinary communication in primary school.
Fifth, it allows to discover self-knowledge, self-expression, creativity and abilities of the teacher.
It can be said that mathematics and computer science have the following interdisciplinary connections:
1. Use of subject content of mathematics when studying content lines in computer science course.
Examples:
 Studying the concept of algorithm with examples of mathematical problems (especially algorithmic structures);
 Study of information systems (for example, text or video editors) using didactic materials in the field of mathematics;
 Studying programming languages using mathematical materials (for example, the Logo language is "good" for creating and studying geometric objects).
2. Adding "non-traditional" content lines to the computer science course (for example, elements of logic and set theory).
3. Introduction to the mathematics course of information that is needed when studying informatics and is not or is not fully provided in a traditional mathematics course (calculation systems; laws of logic algebra; properties of functions/representations, algorithms, models).
4. Teaching mathematics course with the help of information and communication technologies.
5. Study of the concepts introduced in the computer science course in the mathematics course (for example, mathematical as a type of information model).
6. Create an integrated course (for example, "Geometry and Logos").
For example, students can be interested in such topics in computer science-mathematics classes:
"Showing the solution of the system of equations graphically using Microsoft Excel", "Solving one variable inequality", "Solving equations", "Graphics of functions and their properties" and others.
The development of logical thinking takes place depending on age.
School age of students is usually divided into three main periods:
junior (grades 1-4);
secondary school (grades 5-9);
high, youth (10-11 grades).
In the first stage, practical thinking is developed in children.
That is, a small child sees a toy above and reaches for it, and a child who is unable to reach the toy thinks of getting a table or a stick.
In the second stage, visual-figurative thinking prevails.
That is, in the process of solving the problem, he makes a decision not with real objects, but by representing thoughts and ideas.
In the third stage, a high stage of development.
That is, abstract-theoretical thinking prevails in children.
The educational standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan states that the main task of education is the development of logical thinking.
Before talking about the development of logical thinking, it is necessary to talk briefly about logic.
Logic (from the Greek word logic- word, thought, thought, mind) is the science of laws and types of thinking.
The process based on objective opinions is called logical thinking, and the science of forms and laws of correct thinking is called logic.
The logic of logical thinking is that they correspond to reality.
The theory of logical reasoning was first founded by the Greek philosopher Aristotle.
Analysis is the classification of the whole by thought or the separation of its facets, units of action or relationship from the whole, analysis in the simplest form is the separation of any object into composite parts for practical needs.
For example, when introducing children to any plant, we begin by showing its composition (root, stem, leaf).
The analysis is divided into practical and theoretical.
If the analysis is not combined with the above-mentioned thought operations, then it will take on an erroneous, mechanical character.
Such elements of analysis are often found in young children.
Integration is the grouping of different parts, properties and actions into a whole unit.
The join operation is the opposite of the analysis method.
In the course of this activity, individual things and phenomena are considered as a part, a group of elements related to a complex, whole phenomenon.
The peculiarity of logical thinking is that the conclusions are logical in that they correspond to the truth.
In order to develop students' ability to think independently, they need to increase their self-efficacy and confidence.
It is better to give direction to the possibilities of as many things as possible.
The process of acquiring knowledge of students mainly consists of the following components:
1) reception;
2) understanding;
3) memory;
4) summary and systematization.
On the development of children's thinking M. Zhumabayev said: "Ways to develop thinking.
Thinking is a very difficult and deep business of the soul.
Thinking is too hard for a young child.
Therefore, when the teacher develops the child's thinking, he should act carefully."
Performing logical exercises develops the child's mind, imagination, quickness of mind.
These students are formed to be able to produce reports of various contents, to create the conditions of the report.
It leads to finding several solutions to one problem.
Each lesson should end with interesting problems, logical problems should be more complicated depending on the age of the students.
In modern school mathematics, there are many problems that have not yet been solved.
One of them is to develop students' logical thinking abilities, to increase their passion for books, reading, and learning.
In order to solve such problems, it is necessary to solve logical problems from elementary school.
The great scientist D. I. Mendeleev highly appreciated the work of teachers in opening the inexhaustible source of science.
"In science, only a teacher can give deep and meaningful knowledge to his students."
M.I. Mahmutov, a prominent representative of the science of pedagogy, says, "In order to develop a child's thinking ability, he must first be taught to define the goals and objectives of his work."
If the child knows why, for what purpose, each educational work should be done, what new result it will give, then the consciousness of the student's actions will increase.
It is very important to train the child to be able to plan his work on his own according to the educational tasks, to use time correctly, to monitor and evaluate his own actions, in short, to learn self-management.
In order to properly develop the child's thinking, it is necessary to use effective methods and carry out special work.
Education of a child's intellectual ability is one of the main tasks of educational work.
In order to prevent the child's thinking from developing as it should, the teacher should take into account the following points: teach him to express his thoughts with evidence, monitor the formation of the chain of thought in the correct logical way, keep the child's thinking in order, and be active during the lesson to develop his ability to think independently. organizing his work and allowing his ingenuity.
The level of intellectual development is determined by the student's ability to correctly understand the content and significance of relevant facts and phenomena, to be able to explain them on the basis of the already established basis, to be able to independently search and be active in various situations of educational work.
"Logical thinking is the basis of logical speech, and this logical speech should be developed by the teacher," K. D. Ushinskyi pointed out.
The peculiarity of logical thinking is the logicality of conclusions, their conformity to reality.
Logical phenomena are explained, causes and consequences are determined without error.
Connections and relationships between concepts are revealed through logical thinking.
The validity of these connections and relationships cannot be denied in the comments.
In his research, the Swiss scientist J. Paying attention to the formation of the student's mind (intelligence), Piaget believes that it is possible to learn about the nature and function of intelligence in adults by observing the development of the student's intelligence in scientific psychology.
J. Piaget's main task was to study the structure of human intelligence.
He recognized this structure as the result of simple evolutionary development, that is, he tried to prove that the intellectually complex mind is composed of mental elements.
J. The biggest mistake of Piaget's statement is that he looked for the basis of the development of the mind in the intellect itself, without taking into account the overall development of the student, and he did not leave a place for social historical activity among the conscious developmental factors.
J. Piaget's theoretical findings proved that the source of higher-level thinking abilities lies in past thinking abilities.
He could not see that the ability to think cannot be perfected by itself, and development is a human quality, that as the human morality of that person is strengthened with the help of virtue, his mind develops comprehensively and the level of thinking rises.
"A student's communication with adults is built from the bottom up," he said.
Therefore, such communication affects the intellectual and moral development of the student.
The situation of fair communication contributes to the development of the skills of patience, criticality, the ability to stop at the point of view of others, to be able to compare one's opinion with the opinion of others.
Teamwork during the training of adults affects the formation of partnership relations.
Here mutual opinions and disputes arise.
In the process of solving a number of problems, these circumstances show that group work is more effective than individual action.
KN Volkov expressed a number of valuable thoughts as a result of the development of human thought and thinking. Noting that education plays a leading role in this process, K.N. Volkov:
"The educational process should be oriented towards the future developmental age of the student, not yesterday's past development age, education should not be considered as one completed developmental stage or level.
It is necessary to conduct education in such a way as to focus on the unformed, and on the unformed through further training."
The exercises conducted at the beginning of the lesson should be interesting enough to immediately engage students in work.
In the middle or at the end of the lesson, when students are tired of written or practical work, interesting calculations refresh them and increase their work ability.
Experience shows that the ability to use interesting exercises appropriately and skillfully is one of the main ways to increase the effectiveness and quality of the lesson.
First of all, it is necessary to teach students to be able to solve problems in order to develop intelligence and thinking ability.
In the middle age, funny problems and questions teach intelligence and ingenuity in oral calculations.
It prepares the student for quick thinking and quick decision making.
S. Soloveichik - "most of the reasons for not being able to think or not wanting to think, because thinking becomes difficult."
Mental work is more difficult than physical work, a person gets tired quickly, and the results are not always visible.
Difficulty has its own significance for each age and class.
But some students can't bear even this small weight, they gradually stop thinking and working with mental labor without suffering much.
They go to school, answer something, do something, but when they are forced to think, they slip out, copy the report, somehow find a way.
They gradually stop thinking completely, it is impossible to read without thinking.
M.I. Mahmutov, a prominent representative of the science of pedagogy, says, "In order to develop the student's thinking ability, first of all, he should be taught to define the goals and objectives of his work."
If the student knows why, for what purpose, each educational work should be done, what new result it will give, then the consciousness of the student's actions will increase.
It is very important to train the student to be able to plan his work on his own according to the educational tasks, to use time correctly, to monitor and evaluate his own activities, in short, to learn self-management.
In order to properly develop the student's thinking, it is necessary to use effective methods and carry out special work.
Education of the student's intellectual ability is one of the main tasks of educational work.
In order for the teacher not to allow the student's thinking to develop as it should, the following points are taken into account:
to teach to express one's thoughts, to monitor the formation of the chain of thought in the correct logical way, to organize the student's mental work, to develop his ability to think independently, to organize active mental work during the lesson and allow his ingenuity.
The level of intellectual development is determined by the student's ability to correctly understand the content and significance of relevant facts and phenomena, to be able to explain them on the basis of the already established basis, to be able to independently search and be active in various situations of educational work.
During the entire educational work of the student, he is actively involved in acquiring knowledge, forming skills, and forming enthusiasm for learning.
If so, mental development of schoolchildren is carried out by setting the teaching content and educational work in the right way.
Only if the learning material is organized taking into account the age characteristics of the students, the ability to think will be developed.
That's why the teacher should be able to make the students happy in the class, stimulate their imagination, be able to consciously think about their activity, develop their thinking, and develop their entrepreneurship.
The main task of the teacher is to teach them to be able to overcome difficulties and be patient.
In the development of children's play, you can get the features of logical games.
Logical games are a type of work that develops children's thinking ability and increases their interest.
Logical games influence the child's ingenuity, logical thinking, quick thinking, independent decision-making, comparison, reasoning.
Basically, it is safe to say that a child's ability to think logically begins with mastering the first basic mathematical concepts.
The main task of the teacher is to strengthen it systematically.
Therefore, the teacher should always direct the children to think and study, and this can be achieved by systematic organization of the learning process, and by making the most of the opportunities that can develop the child's logic in the classroom.
If we regularly conduct logical tasks, we can improve not only children's interest in the subject, but also their logical thinking through the following methods.
Experts on the need to develop children's logical thinking A.Ya. Zorin, J. Ikramova, etc. can be mentioned.
Summarizing our thoughts, work on the development of children's logical thinking has been systematized and effective ways and methods of its organization have been determined, which, as such, has increased the conditions of children's logical thinking. Vygotsky: "The amount of tasks given to each child is adjusted to his level so that each child has his own level. Each child should be improved in his own development zone. Therefore, in order to develop logical thinking and justify teaching, it is necessary to deeply understand the concept of logical thinking. "Thinking is subject to the laws and forms of logic. "Many people think logically, but they do not know that their thinking takes place through the laws and forms of logic," says V. Kirillova. Today's era, full of changes and innovations, obliges the teacher to be the possessor of eight-sided, one-mysterious virtues. Undoubtedly, it is a complex structure to find a way to the heart of students of different abilities, perception, memory, thinking, and develop their creativity.
One of the most important requirements of modern education is to develop the mind and raise the general cultural level, to raise the level of students' thinking, cognitive, creative abilities, intellectual and cultural work.
The content of intellectual education includes knowledge about nature, society and man, modern production.
The progressive German teacher A. Disterbeg said that "untrue knowledge is worse than ignorance".
BUILDING AN ELECTRONIC TEXTBOOK FOR THE SUBJECT "ORGANIZING STUDENTS' SUBJECT LEARNING"
This article examines the role of electronic textbooks in improving the quality of education and training future teachers.
The effectiveness and importance of using an electronic textbook is discussed.
Currently, the purpose of professional education for future teachers is focused on effective education.
Therefore, the use of electronic textbooks in the teaching of the subject "Organization of students' visual studies" in higher educational institutions in accordance with the current requirements is recognized as a necessity arising from today's requirements.
An electronic textbook is an automated form of systematization of the educational process, such as objective, content, operational, results.
Working with an electronic textbook, the student raises the level of knowledge, learns to identify and analyze cause-effect relationships, compare, differentiate and summarize information.
Key words: information technology, electronic textbook, training of teachers, visual training, information, multimedia tools, education.
Relevance
The use of modern information-innovative technologies in the Kazakhstan education system creates an opportunity to increase the quality of education at all levels of education, to focus the content of education on the result, and provides the teaching process with new methods.
Informatization of the educational process is aimed at increasing the efficiency and quality of all levels of the educational process by developing training using new information technology, realizing the educational goals directed to the individual [2].
Today, effective use of innovative information technologies provides educational institutions with computer equipment, and interactive teaching through electronic textbooks is a priority.
For example, electronic textbooks have more possibilities than traditional textbooks.
Here, the content of knowledge is not limited to the knowledge provided in the textbook, but it is possible to supplement, correct and receive training with deeper and more comprehensive information [3].
An electronic textbook is a set of teacher, supervisor, modeler and other programs located on a magnetic carrier (hard or floppy disk) that shows the main scientific content of the subject.
Electronic textbooks allow solving the following main pedagogical tasks:
- getting to know the subject, mastering its basic concepts and structure;
- assessment and control of education and business;
- ability development in specific types of activities;
- restoration of education and business.
Comparative features of electronic textbooks and traditional textbooks Studying the structure of electronic textbooks from the works of scientists, it is possible to observe the following comparability between traditional textbooks and electronic textbooks:
Table 1. Comparative capabilities of electronic textbooks and traditional textbooks in providing educational materials
1. The textual information is very condensed in the electronic educational tool, because reading the text on the screen for a long time tires the eyes, weakens the perception and acquisition of knowledge.
The size and type of the font plays an important role.
However, in traditional textbooks it is only highlighted or underlined, and it is given only in special cases or for supplementary text.
The electronic tool has the ability to highlight individual words animatedly or highlight the background of text parts, which enhances visibility and draws attention to the main thing.
2. Contains extensive illustrative materials.
In the words of I. I. Markhel, "compared to a simple textbook, the educational tool requires a large amount of illustrative materials that activate the student's thinking and provide practical visualization of teaching."
In addition, the didactic value of the illustrations is very high.
Changing the educational tool with colorful effects affects the student's perception of the material.
In a traditional textbook, illustrations are often presented in black and white or use a limited color palette.
3. The use of video fragments makes it possible to transfer trends and phenomena in a dynamic state. Regardless of the size of the file, their use makes students interested in the learning material, affects the simultaneous work of the hearing and visual organs, and as a result, the quality of education improves.
4. The use of audio fragments in an electronic educational tool allows to integrate information with the usual method of transmission, and also strengthens the work of the auditory center of the brain.
5. Hyperlinks to elements of educational materials or handbooks, control programs are used in the electronic educational tool.
This will speed up the transition to the desired object.
a. It is important to combine text, graphics or other materials in an e-learning tool.
The speed of information reception, integration, analysis, memory, the completeness of learning information depends on its location on the page (screen) or its sequence.
In an e-learning tool, unlike a traditional textbook, there is an opportunity to solve such problems by moving to the background page anywhere.
b. The list of literature recommended for reading, development training programs, training programs, textbooks, methodological manuals can be considered together in the electronic educational tool [4].
Electronic textbooks are a scientific and pedagogical tool.
The creation of electronic textbooks is considered a pedagogical theory of modular learning.
Textbooks are created according to the state curriculum.
Electronic textbooks increase the independent work of students and their high cognitive activity, demonstrate the qualities of deep and thorough learning of students.
At the same time, it covers the entire educational process - from the set goals to the achieved results.
Shows the way to the large informational knowledge space of students.
Information education - cognitive thinking and information self-definitions, prepares test methods for automatic assessment of knowledge.
Analyzing the problem considered in the article, as a basis for it, an electronic textbook was prepared on the subject "Organization of self-learning of students" with the aim of effective use of information technology in the classes of specialties 5B012000-"Vocational training".
There is a continuous process of improvement of visual education all over the world.
The demand for high-quality and relevant professional education is a guarantee of the personal safety of the graduate.
The introduction of professional training in Kazakhstan is primarily connected with individual scientific and technical progress, changing socio-economic conditions that set high requirements for the level of training of specialists in various fields of activity.
The transition to virtual education is one of the concrete steps towards personalization (individualization) of secondary general education not only at the level of educational process, but also at the level of educational results.
The peculiarity of visual education for students is the ability to use the content of the studied subject in professional activity and, accordingly, in the content of professional training of a specialist in that professional field, by creating action videos and giving information about how people work in one or another profession.
That is why the importance of teaching the subject "Organization of visual studies of students" is increasing [5].
Macromedia Flash 8 software was used to create this e-tutorial.
Macromedia Flash 8 is a unique program that allows you to create outstanding interactive multimedia exhibitions, websites, and various animated documents. The extension of the document created in Flash *. fla (Flash document) and *.swf (Small Web-File) type.
In turn, you can import bitmap and vector images (from Photoshop, Illustrator, FreeHand documents), PDF documents and audio files (for example, WAV and MP3 format) into Flash (Figure 1).
With the introduction of computer technologies, education is becoming more and more standardized, and electronic textbooks are modernizing the methods and tools of the educational system.
Judging by the statistics of the e-learning system of modern education, the number of high-quality e-textbooks is increasing, and Macromedia Flash technology plays a very important role in its creation.
This is because the educational tool created using the Macromedia Flash program is a type of technology that is rich in multimedia products in a short amount of time [6].
The structure of the electronic textbook:
consists of lectures, seminars, test tasks, syllabus, typical program, glossary, control questions, used literature and author's team.
Lectures of the electronic textbook "Organization of students' self-study" - S.A. Zholdasbekova, Y.N. Kamalov, N.J.
Organization of visual studies of students.
Almaty.
2013 - 201b taken from the textbook.
The e-textbook "Organization of visual studies of students" covers visual studies of students in general education schools.
The analysis of international experiences of the organization of face-to-face training, psychological-pedagogical support of face-to-face training, organizational-pedagogical aspects of face-to-face training, the position of competence in the organization of face-to-face training of students, and the content of face-to-face training are revealed [5].
The electronic textbook also plays a systematic role in monitoring and evaluating students' knowledge.
Test control is a specially designed scientific, rational procedure that allows for a fairer evaluation of the student's achievements [7].
The electronic textbook also creates an opportunity to implement feedback between the student and the teacher, monitor the learning activity, and check the results of the educational achievements of the learning subjects from the point of view of competence.
That's why 11 versions of tests were created for 11 lectures. Additional materials include: syllabus, sample program, glossary, review questions, and bibliography.
The provided electronic textbook allows students to read lectures according to the standard program, in combination with seminar classes, and also use test tasks.
The use of an electronic textbook in the educational process makes the lesson interesting.
In addition, the presented e-textbook can be used as a teaching tool by students of the part-time study department, distance learning students, and teachers during video training.
COURSE FRAMEWORK FOR INFORMATICS COURSE AT SCHOOL AND HIGHER EDUCATION
Continuity should always be present at all levels of education.
The only way to solve the problem of the continuity of training and the improvement of the efficiency and quality of the training and education process, which ensures the interconnection between different levels of continuing education.
During the study of the issue of continuity in education and upbringing, several trends emerged.
One of them is dedicated to the issue of continuity between secondary school and higher educational institution.
The main condition for creating a unified system of continuing education is to ensure continuity between the general secondary and higher education levels.
In this article, the issue of the continuity of the content of the computer science subject at the school and the higher educational institution is considered.
The author offers ways of differentiating the material in the teaching of computer science in the context of independent educational activities of schoolchildren and first-year students.
Key words. continuity, continuous education, school, higher educational institution
On January 10, 2018, let's note some new opportunities for development in the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan:
- it is necessary to accelerate the creation of our own advanced system in the field of education involving citizens of all ages;
- the main priority of educational programs should be to constantly adapt to changes and develop the ability to acquire new knowledge;
- the transition to updated content has begun in the field of secondary education, which will be completed in 2021.
These are completely new programs, textbooks, standards and personnel;
- it is necessary to strengthen the quality of teaching mathematics and natural sciences at all levels of education, this is an important condition for preparing young people for the new technological situation;
- the content of training should be harmoniously supplemented by providing support from a modern technical point of view;
- to work with artificial intelligence and "big data" in higher education, it is necessary to increase the number of graduates educated in information technologies;
- it's time to look at the education sector as a separate sector of the economy with its own investment projects and export potential.
- higher educational institutions should be given more rights to create educational programs and their academic freedom should be legally approved;
- it is necessary to make efforts to retrain teachers, attract foreign managers to higher educational institutions, and open campuses of world universities;
- in order to increase the potential of the nation, we need to further develop our culture and ideology.
This is exactly the meaning of "spiritual revival".
Updated content means modern educational programs that meet international standards.
These provide our children with the necessary functional literacy and critical thinking skills [1].
The President's annual address to the nation is one of the most important political events for our country.
The peculiarity of the last Message is that it has clarified what measures we need to implement in order to adapt to the new world - the world of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
Currently, a lot of attention is paid to continuity of teaching content at school and higher education institution. When teaching subjects at a higher educational institution, it is necessary to rely on school knowledge, skills and abilities [2].
It cannot be hidden that entrants entering a higher educational institution face great difficulties while learning the concepts of the computer science course and learn them poorly.
One of the reasons for such negative events is as follows:
- few hours allocated to teaching computer science;
- where first-year students received their secondary education (general education school, lyceum, gymnasium);
- what is the educational material base of the educational institution he graduated from;
- qualification of a teacher of computer science;
- differences in methods and methods used in schools and higher educational institutions;
- the teaching system used in teaching computer science to first-year students has not yet been fully resolved (the level of preparation and development of yesterday's students is not taken into account);
- high school informatics teachers do not know the specifics of high school teaching;
- higher school teachers should not rely on the knowledge, skills and abilities acquired by first-year students in secondary school.
In order to effectively solve this problem, it is necessary to improve the logical, learning-methodical connections with the previous topics and maintain the continuity of the topics during the teaching of the subjects of the computer science course.
"Teaching is the establishment of necessary connections and relations between the knowledge of learners at different stages of teaching a subject.
Continuity is the new knowledge of the learner, while preserving some elements of previously acquired knowledge, flexibility and skills.
In this sense, continuity is one of the manifestations of the laws of dialectics, the elimination of futility and the transition from quantitative changes to qualitative changes" [3].
This current situation can be characterized by the lack of a unified system and the inconsistency of goals at different levels of education.
The lack of a unified conceptual approach to setting the goals and objectives of education and the choice of educational content on computer science at the school level has a negative impact on the level of training of students, and sometimes it is necessary to repeat the materials of higher educational institutions.
The reason for this is the lack of some necessary software, the fact that few hours are allocated for studying the subject, and the lack of computer science teachers in some schools.
One of the main problems of continuity between the school and the higher educational institution is the fact that the level of preparation of the first-year students in the subject "Information and Communication Technologies" is different.
In addition, high demands placed on him at the higher educational institution and inconsistency between school control and self-control at the higher educational institution are the reasons.
According to the test conducted by us, many students who came to the higher educational institution showed that their level of knowledge in the field of informatics is insufficient, so they cannot master the "Information and Communication Technologies" course at the higher educational institution [4].
Another reason for the poor performance of first-year students is that, for example, the subject "Information and Communication Technologies" is often held in the 1st semester for all majors.
The course includes 15 lectures, 30 experiments and 90 self-work.
Higher educational institutions work with a module-rating system, where students must collect points for each module.
That is, the student needs to submit 30 practical assignments within 15 weeks, and the fact that he has not yet adapted to new conditions, and also to the new education assessment system, creates a problem [5].
First-year students do not know how to plan the study process, they do not understand that they need to study and read most of the materials at the higher education institution on their own.
For these reasons, students often have lower grades at the end of the semester.
It is known that computer science courses have their own characteristics.
School informatics is included in the general subject part of the course of higher educational institutions.
The student acquires new knowledge in higher educational institutions, supplements school knowledge.
Therefore, the content of the "Information and Communication Technologies" course of a higher educational institution should be a natural continuation of school informatics.
In the process of teaching the "Information Communication Technologies" course to students, it is better to rely on the knowledge of informatics acquired in high school.
In this regard, it is useful to use school textbooks when teaching computer science subjects.
During the teaching of computer science at school, the following sections are considered:
- Information and information processes;
- Computer;
- Algorithmization and programming;
- Information modeling;
- Information and communication technologies;
- Telecommunications [6].
The connections between the subject of informatics at school and the content of education in the "Information Communication Technologies" course at a higher educational institution can be reflected using the schemes presented in Figure 1.
This scheme shows the connection between the secondary school computer science course taught in grades 9-11 and the "Information and Communication Technologies" course taught to 1st-year students of higher educational institutions in all majors.
The dashed line in Figure 1 is necessary for the teaching of mathematics departments of higher educational institutions, and the full line shows the connection of school informatics departments that continue at higher educational institutions.
We believe that it is necessary to carry out the following types of work on the implementation of continuity in the teaching of informatics in higher secondary schools:
 actively communicating with higher educational institutions and secondary schools (designing and conducting special computer science course programs at school, giving opinions, giving advice, distance learning, seminars, etc.);
 communicating with higher education institutions and teacher training institutes (giving lectures to teachers, organizing seminars, etc.),
 during the teaching of "Information and communication technologies" in high school, without re-teaching the basic concepts presented at school, confidently look at secondary school education;
 during the teaching of computer science subjects, it is necessary to constantly analyze the relevant issues according to the school course; disclosure of logical, methodical connections; to compare homogeneous concepts, rules and definitions related to reviving known facts and concepts in the memory of students, assigning their general and common aspects, differences;
 in order to ensure that students with poor performance master the necessary amount of the subject, the teacher keeps some elements of previously acquired school knowledge, flexibility and exercises, and by differentiating and dividing each topic into levels, strict supervision of students' gradual implementation of them;
 considering the theoretical and practical components of computer science subjects, consider the examples obtained from the school's computer science course;
 applying the reports obtained from the computer science courses of the school to students' original and control works and vice versa;
 complete preparation of high school students for teaching methods and methods of higher educational institutions, that is, use of lecture-seminar types of teaching;
 paying more attention to the features of textbooks and programs that are used in school computer science courses.
The effective organization of the above-mentioned works ensures the emergence of a deep understanding of the knowledge of informatics of pupils and students, which is a real means of raising their scientific and general educational culture.
So, during the implementation of continuity:
- the connection between the subjects of the computer science course becomes stable;
- helps to distinguish important parts of a concept or topic and establish appropriate connections between their individual parts and learning it;
- there is a situation for students to constantly repeat known topics from the school course, to remember them in case of forgetting;
- yesterday's student and today's student will not have additional difficulties in learning the materials of the computer science course, on the contrary, it will be easier to learn new material, increase their enthusiasm to fully understand the new topic, and make it possible for them to remember it;
- as a result of connecting past topics with new ones, the creative activity of both the teacher and the student, the quality of education increases;
- high school students learn the educational material and teaching methods of higher educational institutions of computer science.
A correct understanding of continuity will bring significant benefits in the organization of the educational process and its individual levels, and its appropriate use will give large-scale results in methodological research.
DECISION SUPPORT MODEL FOR FINANCING SCHOOL CYBER SECURITY TOOLS
The article provides a model for the module of the decision support system for funding cyber security tools of the educational institution's information and communication environment. The mathematical model is based on the theory of multi-step games.
The author proposes a solution taking into account the analysis of previous researches in this field, which solution allows to manage the information security of the educational institution, in particular, to make a preliminary assessment of financial strategies for the effective creation of cyber security systems of the information educational environment of a large university.
A distinctive feature of the model is that the defender does not have complete information about the financial strategies and financial resources of the information and communication system of the educational institution aimed at overcoming the cyber security boundaries.
In order to check the validity of the model, a multivariate calculation experiment was carried out, the results of the calculation experiment are described in the article.
Keywords: cyber security, information and communication environment, educational institutions, game theory, decision support, financial strategy selection.
1. Introduction
According to many experts in the field of information protection, the information security (IS) system and cyber security (CI) system of educational institutions, in particular, universities, not only ensure the safety and confidentiality of information arrays and data, but also prevent unauthorized access to the information and communication system of educational institutions. it is necessary to guarantee that penetration is impossible [1–3].
The measures to provide JS and CK of OOAKZ require additional financing [4-6].
For example, let's include the following to the protected information stored and circulated in the OOAKZ [2, 4, 7]:
personal data of students (pupils), teachers, employees;
digitized information indicating the intellectual property of the educational institution;
information arrays that support the educational process (for example, database, training programs, multimedia content); etc.
This information may be subject to theft or vandalism by external (internal) computer intruders or vandalism by students or staff.
All of the above determines that the study of the development of new models for the intelligent support system in decision-making is an actual problem, in particular, in the reports that choose the optimal financial strategy for the information security and cyber security of the information and communication system of universities.
2. The purpose of the article is to develop a model for the module of an intelligent support system for decision-making in the process of choosing an effective financial strategy for cyber security of the information system and information-communication system of educational institutions, namely universities.
3. Review of previous studies The trend of increasing complexity of cyber-attacks has caused a wave of research on the problem of intellectualization of calculations in all possible information systems and technologies, in particular, in the area of information protection and decision-making of various application aspects of information and communication systems of universities [8-12]. .
At the same time, work related to the synthesis of new methods and models to support decision-making in the selection of financing strategies for the PF of information protection devices and various information objects [12-15] is ongoing.
It is shown in [10] that funding decision-making in cyber security is a permanent issue.
However, the analysis of the last few works [12–15] shows that the lack of generalized methods of obtaining strategies related to the financing of the JSC system and the JSC for the NSC is their common weakness in this research segment.
In addition, the models [13, 14] describing the financial strategy of the attacker do not take into account the possible presence of unknown information in the financial strategies of the attacker.
And the models presented in [9–12] do not consider the possibility of determining the risk of a financial resource being lost from the side of the cyber defender.
In our opinion, the shortcomings of many existing approaches to the problem of optimization of the JSC system and the financing strategies of the JSC can be eliminated by using the theory of differential methods and the multi-step quality game [2-6].
Thus, the analyzes of the researches show that the further development of models for the decision support system is an important problem in the account of optimization of the JSC system and the financing strategies of the JSC.
4. Methods and models The article develops the idea of the authors in the works [3, 5, 6].
Within the framework of game theory, two sides are considered:
Player No. 1 is defender of UAKZH (UAKZHK); Player #2 is a computer intruder (CW).
Both players use financial resources to achieve their goals [1, 4, 6, 13].
5. Calculation experiments Purpose of calculation experiments:
1) Determination of the set of financial strategies of players (UAKZHK and KZ);
2) Assessment of the adequacy of the proposed mathematical model
3) The results of two calculation experiments are shown in pictures 1, 2.
Calculation experiment 1 (Fig. 1) corresponds to the situation where the financial resource of the UAKZHK KZ is "dominant".
This situation allows him to control the "common trajectory" in the three-dimensional plane t, x, c.
In addition, it allows to bring the trajectory of its financial resources to the terminal page in the area of "desire" for the UASC.
Computational experiment 2 (Figure 2) is symmetrical to the situation described in Figure 1.
That is, the second player (KZ or hacker) will dominate in terms of financial resources.
Therefore, KZ brings the trajectory of his financial resources to the terminal surface in the "desire" zone.
Thus, the computational experiment confirmed the adequacy of the model.
In addition, it has been confirmed that the model has the ability to provide effective decision-making support to the sphere of financing of financial institutions and financial institutions.
The model presented in the article considered the situation where the initial conditions were not taken into account, in particular, there was no complete information about the financial resources of the attacker (KZ-hacker), and eliminated the shortcoming.
The model defined in this text differs from the previously considered solutions [8, 12] and from the models considered by the authors [5, 9, 11, 15].
Thank you. During the preparation of the article, professor V.A. Lakhnoga and others, professor B.S. The author thanks Akhmetov.
6. Conclusions. The following results are obtained in the article.
The model is presented for an intelligent decision-making support system that invests information protection and cyber security of information and communication systems of universities by choosing effective funding strategies.
The model assumes the use of dynamic programming methods to solve problems with incomplete information.
Unlike previously found solutions, it allowed to find an effective solution for all the options of situations that require spending financial resources on the part of the SSC to supplement the information.
The results of the calculation experiment are described in the work.
In the solution of the game, the relations of the game parameters for all situations are given for the defender of the UAC and computer intruders who seek to overcome the cyber security boundaries of the information and communication system of the university.
In the course of simulation experiments, cases were considered when information about the hacker's financial resources was unknown to the defender of the UAC.
The computational experiment confirmed the adequacy of the model.
The deviation of the results of the calculation experiment from the practical data does not exceed 12%.
DATA VISUALIZATION IN R STUDIO THROUGH NETWORK ANALYSIS
Network science is a scientific method for understanding and interpreting biological, physical, social, and informational systems through the analysis of interconnections.
This article explores data visualization capabilities in the R studio environment using network analysis.
Considering the objects as nodes of the network, the features of determining the connections between them were analyzed.
Using the features of the R studio environment, the interconnection of objects is shown visually.
Narkhoz University and foreign universities exchanging students under the academic mobility program are considered as objects.
The relationship between these higher educational institutions and Narkhoz University in terms of academic mobility of students in the last three academic years was analyzed.
Keywords: Network analysis, data analysis, data visualization
Today, networks are widely used in various fields of science, in addition to showing the interconnection of computers.
Analysis of networks, business communication, determining the level of risk, trade, labor market, etc. Determining the relationship between objects in various fields helps to identify and solve many problems in advance.
The location and structure of each object in the network is considered very important [1].
Network analysis (network analysis) is a separate scientific direction with its own theory and methods derived from other disciplines, namely, topologies in graph theory and mathematics, the system of analysis of kinship ties in anthropology, analysis of social groups and processes in sociology [2].
Although there is no clear information about who exactly proposed network analysis, where and when, it can be seen from the works of Jacobo Moreno in the 1930s.
He named the study of social relations as sociometry and founded the magazine Sociometry, where the first works in this field were published.
At the same time, he created a sociogram, which was a tool for visualization of the network structure.
The first sociogram was published in the New York Times newspaper in 1933, where a network diagram of the social relations of 4th graders was created.
The theory and methods of network analysis were developed in the last decade of the 20th century, with significant contributions from the fields of sociology, psychology, political science, business, health, and computer science.
The development of network science as a practical discipline was due to the development of various software tools for network analysis, such as UCINet, STRUCTURE, Negopy, and Pajek.
The rapid development of network science over the last 20-30 years can be attributed to three different reasons [3].
First, many large-scale theories related to the formation of the network and its structure, proposed by mathematicians, physicists and other scientists, led to the focus on the science of network analysis.
Second, the increase in computing power and speed has made it possible to apply network analysis methods to very large networks, such as the Internet, the population of the planet, and the human brain.
At the same time, the emerging new approaches within the statistical theories of the network for the first time allowed analysts to use various research methods, not limited to a simple description of the network, to create and test statistical models of network structures and processes [4]. Currently, the wide use of data analysis and visualization capabilities is widely used in all fields of science.
The R studio environment, which can be downloaded and installed for free from the Internet, provides extensive opportunities for data analysis and visualization [5].
A key tool for network professionals is network analysis, and it includes the following set of techniques:
methods for visualizing the network, determining the main characteristics of the network structure, as well as obtaining specific information about individual nodes, groups and subgroups within the network, creating mathematical and statistical models of the network structure and network dynamics.
Since network science mainly depends on interconnection, it has its own characteristics from traditional statistical tools used in network analysis [6].
Let's go through some of the notations of network analysis used in this article.
The following parameters are used to determine the interconnection of network objects.
N = {1, ..., n} nodes, vertices, (agents, actors, players, etc., in our case universities)  walls, connections, links:
connections between nodes  one of the wall characteristics can be intensive (heavy)  How many hours a week do two people spend together?
 how much raw materials are transported from one country to another?
In our case, how many students from Narkhoz University studied on academic mobility?
 0 or 1 (without weight) can take only one of two values.
 did two authors jointly write the article?
 are two people "friends" on any social network?
 They can be "directed" or "undirected".
 the presence of a link from one web page to another, the presence of a link to another work in an article, a subscription to a social network is a one-way relationship, if students from one university go to another and there is no exchange with that university, it is only a one-way relationship.
 co-authorship, commonwealth, kinship, marriage - two-way relationship, in our case, acceptance of mutual students between universities for the purpose of training each other on academic mobility is a two-way relationship.
Therefore, in order to show the interrelationship of higher educational institutions in terms of academic mobility of students, we enter the data of the required period of time into an electronic table, format it in a suitable way for visualization in the programming environment, and load it into the programming environment.
Assign the necessary parameters and give the visualization command based on the rules of the programming language.
We filled the table of data on academic mobility organized at the university with the data of the last academic year 2014-2015, 2015-2016, 2016-2017.
For the convenience of data visualization, we number higher education institutions (Figure 1).
By analyzing the available data as an example, you can make predictions and determine ways to solve the problems.
According to the Bologna process, two types of academic mobility, "vertical" and "horizontal", are defined.
According to vertical mobility, a student's full academic degree is considered for academic mobility, and horizontal mobility is considered to study in a limited period of time (semester or academic year) [4].
In our case, "vertical" academic mobility was analyzed throughout the academic semester or academic year.
We determine the number of students exchanged for academic mobility between universities, fill it in a spreadsheet and save it in csv format.
The next step is to load this file into the R studio environment and run the visualization command.
After installing the necessary packages and running the libraries, we set the above-mentioned parameters of the created network between universities.
Nodes in the network, connections between them can be clearly seen in the created graph (Figure 2).
Analysis of the results of academic mobility of Narkhoz students showed that the best ties were established with the International Business School in Hungary (61 students) and Kagnam University in South Korea (43).
In terms of academic mobility, a large number of students from Osh State University (40) and the University of Finance and Economics of Tajikistan (37) come to Narkhoz University from foreign higher educational institutions.
We determined the need to improve student exchange with Japan, the United States of America, Korea, and Hungary.
Thus, according to the results of data analysis and visualization, it was shown that the interaction of Narkhoz University with foreign higher educational institutions on academic mobility is one-sided.
According to the analysis of academic mobility in the last three academic years, 185 students of Narkhoz University studied at 18 foreign higher educational institutions, while 191 students from 19 countries studied at our university under the academic mobility program.
University students study in foreign higher educational institutions, and the number of students from those countries who come to study in our country is very small. It is known that the solution to this problem depends on many factors.
LEVEL OF PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES IN THE FIELD OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Today, the only way to develop our country is to introduce new innovations using information technologies.
Development of information technologies cannot be implemented without raising the number and quality of information technology specialists.
This article analyzes which programming language is most used by information technology specialists and which can be considered the most popular.
It is known that each programming language has its own scope of application.
However, some of them are used more often than others.
This article lists the most popular information technology specialists today and creates a network of communication between their programming languages.
Based on the collected data, a communication graph was created using the R programming language.
Keywords: information technology, programming languages, R programming language, JavaScript, Java, Python, SQL, CSS.
The only way to stimulate the development of the state of Kazakhstan is to introduce new innovations through the use of advanced information technologies.
Therefore, the "Kazakhstan-2050" strategy and "Information Kazakhstan-2020" programs are working.
However, these measures cannot be implemented without increasing the number and quality of information technology specialists.
In addition, questions related to the quality of their training are very important today.
In the face of rapid technological development, educational programs are not always adapted to the reality of the sector, which ultimately affects graduates.
Programming languages are developing very fast, new languages are replacing old ones.
Each programming language has its own scope of application.
However, some of them are used more often than others.
Let's take a look at Stackoverflow's resource statistics.
Every year they prepare a report on the most popular programming languages.
More than 50,000 developers from all over the world participate in the survey.
To track the dynamics, we collected data from 2017, 2016 and used data from Google Trends.
Let's take a look at each programming language and try to understand what programming languages should be taught in 2018.
Javascript is one of the most popular programming languages.
It has been number one for several years in a row.
This trend is evident from the ongoing dynamics.
It is the most cross-platform language that allows you to create desktop, web and mobile applications.
Javascript has many convenient and flexible libraries.
The most popular: React.js. Angular.js and Vue.js.
SQL is a programming language used to manipulate data in a database.
SQL is required for designing databases used by many websites.
Java - Java is very popular in finance and banking.
First of all, it depends on the level of speed and security.
Java developers are highly valued in the job market due to the shortage.
This programming language is very difficult to learn and it is not always easy for beginners.
Among other things, Android applications are specially developed in Java.
This is the main reason for the significant popularity of this language.
C# is one of the most advanced and convenient programming languages.
It is the main development language of the Microsoft .NET platform.
C# is very similar to Java, but has several advantages.
It should be noted that C# is more difficult to learn than Java.
It is not the best choice for beginners.
Python - PHP language has become very popular today.
But today Python's popularity is increasing day by day.
Today, it can be said that Python has gained the trust of young programmers.
It has many advantages.
First of all, it is short and clear.
As such, Python is a great starting point for beginners.
A convenient code structure simplifies project development and further supports them.
For businesses, this reduces costs.
Python is one of the few server-side languages showing growth dynamics.
PHP is the most widely used programming language for the server side.
According to statistics, PHP is used by about 240 million sites.
PHP has good flexibility and performance.
It can be used for small business sites as well as for large projects with high load.
The main drawback is the lack of ability to create desktop applications and server components.
Like most server programming languages, it is losing its popularity.
C++ is one of the most complex programming languages.
It is difficult for a newcomer to understand and many of them try to avoid it.
But with it, C++ has high performance.
This allows you to create programs and programs for any purpose.
TypeScript is developed by Microsoft.
In a short period of time, he became popular.
TypeScript is a flexible and productive programming language based on Javascript.
The founders of TypeScript have put in a lot of effort and are adding new solutions to improve performance and usability.
Ruby is an object-oriented programming language.
It is used in web development along with Rails.
Ruby is a very high-level language.
It has a simple and clean syntax.
Ruby provides good scalability and easy maintenance.
Like PHP, it allows the development of e-commerce platforms.
The main drawback is poor documentation and slow growth in popularity.
The popularity of languages is evaluated by various factors.
GitHub has published a ranking of the most popular programming languages by the number of requests.
JavaScript comes in at the top with 2.3 million requests, followed by Python at 1 million.
Also, the top five are Java, Ruby, and PHP.
The popularity of JavaScript is explained by its versatility.
The language is supported by all browsers and is written for desktop and mobile platforms.
There are ratings that take into account several parameters for evaluating popularity.
TIOBE takes into account the number of professionals, training courses, independent providers and search queries.
Five leaders should be noted here: Java, C, C++, C#, Python.
Only JavaScript behind them. Knowing the right language in the right place at the right time is one of the components of success for any developer, including a web developer.
Each programming language has its own scope of application.
However, some of them are used more often than others.
Let's analyze which programming language is most used by information technology specialists and which can be considered the most popular.
For this, a communication network was created between several information technology specialists and programming languages.
First, lists of the most popular IT professionals today have been created.
The programming languages used by various information technology specialists were studied.
According to the study, a table of programming languages used by information technology specialists was compiled (Table 1).
Based on the information in the table above, a network of information technology specialists and programming languages was created using the R programming language.
First, a network of programming languages was created.
The 28 most popular programming languages today have been selected (Table 2).
A network of information technology specialists was created (Table 3).
Based on the established programming languages and the network of information technology specialists, the relationship between the two was determined (Table 4).
R is a programming language for statistical data processing and graphics, as well as an open source computing environment under the GNU project.
R supports a wide range of statistical and numerical methods and is well extensible with packages.
R is widely used as a statistical software for data analysis and is the de facto standard for statistical programs. One feature of R is its graphics capabilities, which include the ability to create high-quality graphics that may include mathematical symbols.
For ease of working with R, there are graphical interfaces such as RStudio, JGR, RKWard, SciViews-R, Statistical Lab, R Commander, Rattle.
We can see the result of our programming code created using the R programming language in the form of graphics.
Most of the programming languages we see with graphics are focused on the middle parts of graphics.
Rarely used programming languages are located towards the periphery.
In conclusion, according to our analysis, it was found that among the programming languages used by information technology specialists, JavaScript is in the first place.
Then: Java, Python, SQL, CSS programming languages found their place.
ORGANIZING INDIVIDUAL WORK OF STUDENTS THROUGH WEB-SERVICES
The dynamics of the growth and change process of high technology, the strengthening of information wealth in the professional environment, the active introduction of new information technologies into professional activities directly affect the organization and content of training future specialists in any professional field.
The decisive role of the reform in the field of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan is to increase the quality of education.
One of ways to increase the quality of the educational process is to organize students' own work.
According to the state educational standards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the number of independent works of students increases according to the technology of credit education.
Today in the labor market there is a demand for specialists with communication skills, the ability to effectively plan their activities, the ability to independently acquire knowledge and apply it in non-standard situations.
The article describes ways to improve the quality of education by improving students' own work using web-services.
Keywords: web-services, social networks, quality of education, competence of the learner, independent work, interactive educational resources, distance learning.
The current state of rapid scientific-innovative and socio-economic development in the world has brought many changes to the education system.
In today's state of development, it is becoming an important task of universities to prepare competent, competitive specialists who can not only adapt to the rapidly developing information society, but also contribute to the development of society.
Currently, there is a demand for specialists who can adapt to the requirements and needs of the rapidly changing world, who can independently acquire new knowledge and skills and make decisions.
One of the rational solutions to this problem is to improve the quality of students' own work, which is given more than half of the total teaching hours.
This can be done by using new information technologies corresponding to the period of scientific and technological development.
The active use of new information technologies in education, combining them with modern teaching methods and methods, presupposes changes in the organization of practice.
Let's consider the possibilities of modern Internet technologies in improving the quality of training of students with their own work, improving the learning process with a competency approach.
One of the urgent issues of the modern education system within the framework of the implementation of educational standards of the new generation and improvement of the quality of the educational process is the organization of students' independent work.
The use of Internet resources in education provides users with access to domestic and foreign sources of information and allows different age groups to choose the type and location of education, the level of education.
Web services are interconnected educational sites and portals that provide access to the resources of educational institutions, publishers, educational centers and companies, as well as news distribution and online educational community materials and blogs.
Social web-services are modern tools and network software that support group interaction (interaction and personal activities of participants).
An important feature of using web-services in education is the co-creation and use of resources.
Social services and group activities in online communities open up further opportunities for pedagogical practice.
 use of open, free and free electronic resources;
 independently create online educational content, publish materials on the Internet;
 acquisition of information competence;
 control of community participants, joint activities and cooperation activities with other people.
The following advantages of using social networks in the educational environment can be highlighted:
1. Familiar environment for students
2. In social networks, a person performs under his own name
3. Wiki technology allows all network participants to create online learning content
4. Ability to work together
5. Presence on walls, chat, forum 6. As electronic notebooks, each participating student can create his own blog
7. Monitoring the activity of participants through the feed of friends
8. It is convenient to use for project management
9. Suitable as a portfolio for both students and teachers.
The use of forums and wiki technologies in virtual learning groups allows all users to independently or collaboratively create and use online learning content, which encourages self-learning.
The combination of individual and group forms of work allows for deep understanding and mastery of this material, as well as coordination of individual learning trajectory.
Communicative space for all participants of the educational process allows for collective evaluation of results and work processes, monitoring of the development of each participant and assessment of their contribution to collective creativity.
Outside of learning, high levels of communication make the process of continuous learning impossible.
Due to the need to create methods and learning scenarios to ensure the quality and efficiency of education, it is aimed at the organization of research and research activities of students in order to get the necessary knowledge, and not so much to modernize the knowledge they have received.
The type of distance learning provides opportunities for careful and detailed design of students' work, clearly setting the goals and objectives of learning, access to necessary learning materials, interactive and group education between the student and the teacher.
In order to master the subject, the teacher prepares a distance learning course, conducts correspondence with students, answers their questions, checks and monitors the completion of the work, provides additional materials if necessary.
As a result, the teacher creates an active learning environment based on the individual capabilities and talents of the students.
In this regard, Internet technologies have such extensive possibilities (social networks, educational portals, wikis, blogs, etc.).
Interactive educational resources are also actively used in organizing students' independent work, for example, LearningApp was created with the help of a service (a web service for creating electronic learning resources).
The site has dozens of templates that can be created according to the structure of any report, consisting not only of texts, but also audio and video clips and images.
Such reports arouse the interest of students, interactive communication allows students to assess the level of mastery of the materials they have received and performance reports.
The presence of effective feedback allows to receive information about the correct direction of the student from ignorance to education, which significantly increases the efficiency and quality of education within the framework of the implementation of the standard of education for the new generation.
POSSIBILITIES AND ADVANTAGES OF INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION OF STUDENTS THROUGH INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
The article deals with the development of new educational technologies aimed at the formation of a child as an individual.
The formation of a new educational system is accompanied by innovative changes in the pedagogical theory and practice of the educational system.
Modern information and communication technologies (ICT) are one of the important tools for improving the pedagogy and didactics of students.
Socialization of personality is one of the main institutions of modern education.
Through this, a free, responsible, moral person capable of self-development in the future is formed.
In order to organize individual-oriented training on the basis of modern education, it is possible to use ICT that can effectively conduct education, actively involve students in the learning process, increase the effectiveness of teaching, and first of all, take into account the individual needs and characteristics of the student.
The use of ICT in individual-oriented education significantly activates the educational and cognitive activity of students.
Key words: ICT, technology, educational technologies, person-oriented education, traditional education, person-oriented approach, object, subject.
In his address to the people of Kazakhstan, our President said that "We need a modern education system that meets the needs of economic and social renewal" and pointed out the importance of modern education [1].
Currently, the paradigm of education is changing.
Previously, it was conducted in a subject-oriented manner, but now it will be conducted in an individual-oriented manner.
This is an objective process caused by changes in society.
Earlier teaching technologies were aimed at forming general learning aspirations and skills of students.
The subject taught there was considered to be the goal of education, and the student was a means to achieve it.
As a result, many students do not have a positive attitude towards learning.
A feature of modern pedagogical science is the development of new educational technologies aimed at the formation of a child as an individual.
The formation of a new educational system is accompanied by innovative changes in the pedagogical theory and practice of the educational system.
The content of education is enriched with new procedural skills, creative solutions to scientific problems, development of abilities to use information and market experience with an emphasis on individualization of educational programs.
In recent years, the rapid development of ICT could not affect the learning process at school.
Modern information technologies are one of the important means of improving the pedagogy and didactics of students.
One of the main institutions of modern education can be called socialization of personality.
This is the formation of a free, responsible, moral person capable of self-development in the future.
The most important thing for a teacher is to choose the right teaching method.
New pedagogical technologies increase the student's personal strength and play a key role in the development of creative play.
Mastering new technologies has a beneficial effect on the formation of the intellectual, professional, moral, spiritual, civic and many other aspects of the teacher, helps him develop himself and effectively organize the educational process.
An educated person who easily adapts to a changing society, quickly learns a new field of activity, has a high level of tolerance, is able to analyze any situation, evaluate it and make appropriate decisions is a citizen of an open society.
The traditional education system mostly solves one task - formation of knowledge, abilities and skills, where development and training are secondary.
All these students:
 low level of work ability and independence;
 unwillingness to work in groups and teams;
 to be ready for only reproductive education;
 difficulties in working with information;
 not being able to clearly and clearly express their thoughts, not being able to analyze the ways of their actions;
 leads to inability to plan, design, and model their actions.
The strategy of a person-oriented approach is a strategy when "the teacher's approach to the student is as a permanent person, as a subject of self-awareness, responsible self-development and as a subject of mutual educational action" [1].
Benefits of a person-centered approach include:
 places the child's personality, provision of comfortable, unhindered and safe conditions for his development, realization of his natural potential in the middle of the school education system
 the methodological orientation of this pedagogical activity, based on the methods of mutual understanding, ideas and actions, allows to provide and support the processes of self-awareness, self-formation and realization of the child's personality, to develop his unique personality
 aims at comprehensive and homogeneous development of the student's personality, i.e. intellectual, emotional, value-motivational components [2].
Thus, an individual-oriented approach influences all components of the educational system (educational and educational goals, educational content, methods and perceptions, educational technologies) while forming an educational environment and support for students.
Within the framework of person-centered approaches, there are many technologies, among which the most effective and widespread are:
 child pedagogical support technology;
 cooperation pedagogy;
 human-personal technology Sh.A. Amonashvili [3];
 multi-level training;
 technology of complete knowledge acquisition;
 project methodology;
 Dalton - technology;
 personal development training. I.S. Yakimansky [4].
Personal development training is the basis of effective education.
Personal development training is determined by its orientation to solving life problems and living.
It is aimed at helping the student to develop his own qualities, to define his personal position, and should become the norm of teaching and upbringing of students in any school.
In the process of perceiving and understanding the world of people and things in the traditional pedagogy in the technology of development and education focused on the individual, special attention is paid to the practically neglected development factor of the academic experience of the life of the child in the family and socio-cultural environment before the school.
Human subjectivity (individualism) reflects the perception of the world (its content, form), stability of selectivity, ways of processing educational material, emotional-personal relations with objects of knowledge (material and ideal).
The goal of developmental education is to develop the cognitive abilities of every child;
maximum identification, initiation, use, development of the child's personal (subjective) experience; help in self-awareness and self-development.
Developmental education technology focused on the individual means a combination of education interpreted as a normative and consistent activity of society as an individual meaningful activity of an individual child.
Its content, methods, and methods help to form individual cognitive approaches by organizing integrated education to discover and use the experience of each student.
In the educational process, the main areas of human activity (science, art, crafts) are divided, the requirements are based on the acquisition, description and accounting of personal qualities. [5].
A personalized lesson, unlike a traditional lesson, first of all changes the type of "teacher-student" interaction.
The teacher moves from team style to cooperation.
The student's attitude changes from careful execution to active creativity, and his thinking becomes different: reflective, that is, result-oriented.
The nature of the relationship formed in the lesson also changes.
Most importantly, the teacher not only assigns tasks, but also creates optimal conditions for the development of students' personality (Table 1).
Let's look at the two main directions of using modern information technologies that increase the quality of education.
The first refers to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and abilities that allow the successful use of computers in solving educational problems.
The ability to use a computer in everyday life, as well as the demands of society, reduces the gap between real knowledge and skills.
The second one considers modern information technology as an effective educational tool, which can significantly increase its effectiveness, providing wide opportunities for free choice of educational trajectory.
ICT in personalized learning:
 to encourage students to study and increase their cognitive activity;
 to form the learning process taking into account the personal qualities of each student;
 create conditions for independent management of the training course;
 timely correction of the teacher during the learning process;
 to monitor the dynamics of students' development;
 makes it possible to take into account the level of learning and learning ability of each student.
In order to organize individual-oriented training on the basis of modern education, it is possible to use ICT that can effectively conduct education, actively involve students in the learning process, increase the effectiveness of teaching, and first of all, take into account the individual needs and characteristics of the student.
In individual-oriented teaching, the teacher determines the position of his activity by putting the student first during the preparation and conduct of the lesson.
Individual-oriented teaching has achievements in the implementation of pedagogical activities.
This allows to solve a number of problems in the fields of education and training, for example:
 increases students' cognitive interest in the subject;
 comprehensive analysis of the material affecting its quality improvement;
 to develop motivational and necessary, emotional-sensory spheres of an individual that create conditions for self-determination and respect for the child;
 to be tolerant not only to students, but also to the opinion of the opponent;
 to create a comfortable psychological environment in the classroom that reduces anxiety of students;
 to form socially important competencies of students.
In our opinion, individual-oriented teaching has a positive effect on the teacher's personality: the teacher learns the ability to have an audience; creates a psychological atmosphere in the classroom; develops freedom of thought and speed of decision-making in certain situations.
It is important to note that the person-centered approach focuses on meeting the needs and interests of the child.
When using this method, the teacher tries not to create social-typical features in children, but unique personal qualities are formed in each of them.
In addition, the use of ICT in individual-oriented education increases the educational and cognitive activity of students
 implementation of differential education;
 allows to study the presented material and develop thinking
 development of information culture;
 creating comfortable learning conditions (individualization);
 activates by participating in the cognitive process.
The use of ICT in education allows the student to develop his or her creativity in the educational process.
By using ICT during the lesson, students expand their previously acquired knowledge and perform creative tasks on their own.
Working with modern ICT tools teaches students to be careful, precise, perform the given tasks effectively, to focus on the main issue, and also educates students to plan their own activities correctly and make the right decisions while working with ICT tools.
USE OF INFORMATION COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES IN MILITARY EDUCATION
It is a prerequisite for the formation and implementation of the educational program "Digital Kazakhstan" modernized on the basis of information and communication technologies (ICT).
Modern ICT offers a wide range of computer training tools: graphic, sound and video effects, computer modeling and 3D design capabilities, modeling simulators, computer dialogue, business games, etc.
The article deals with the issues of increasing the effectiveness of military education through the use of information and communication technologies (ICT).
Also, on the basis of a special study, criteria for increasing the effectiveness of military education were determined.
The importance of ICT in enhancing military education in higher educational institutions is highlighted below.
Keywords: military education, educational process, information and communication technologies, distance learning technology, methodological support.
In the Address of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan:
"Third revival of Kazakhstan: global competitiveness" [1] emphasizes the new global importance of the IT industry: "....used in healthcare, education, such as 3D-printing, online shopping, mobile banking, digital services and other promising fields should be developed.
These industries have already changed the structure of the economies of developed countries and given a new quality to traditional industries.
Therefore, the Government should keep special control over the development of the IT industry.
It is a prerequisite for the formation and implementation of the educational program "Digital Kazakhstan" modernized on the basis of information and communication technologies (ICT).
ICT is a highly effective means of revitalizing human intellectual activity.
It should include the entire educational system in the country aimed at economic development, which involves forcing the introduction of information and telecommunication technologies into educational processes [2].
Modern ICT offers a wide range of computer training tools: graphic, sound and video effects, computer modeling and 3D design capabilities, modeling simulators, computer dialogue, business games, etc.
An interactive environment can be developed to provide access to modern information and educational resources (the Internet, multimedia textbooks and hypertext-based textbooks, various databases, training sites, etc.) to manage cognitive processes with the help of information and communication technologies in the educational process.
Currently, ICT is used for imparting theoretical knowledge (in lectures), learning tasks (experimental and laboratory), performing creative tasks (self-learning), evaluating knowledge, skills and control.
The importance of ICT in enhancing military education in higher educational institutions is shown below:
- representation of theoretical information by means of computer and demonstrative means (for example, combat operations, execution of military operations, use of weapons, fire fighting, defense objects);
- delivering military knowledge verbally and visually through computer and demonstration tools at the same time;
- creation of simulation situations for the development of competences and skills of future military teachers in drill, fire and other situations;
- creating favorable conditions for mastering the basics of military education and self-education, regardless of the location (outside the audience or the audience);
- to ensure the awareness of teachers with modern military knowledge, technologies, weapons and technology, to introduce the best practice in the field of teaching methods, to exchange experience through distance learning and to provide methodological assistance;
- equipping classrooms with educational and normative documents, manuals, orders, students' educational tasks (problem situations, execution of individual military operations, exercises for the execution of orders, materials showing tests and tasks);
- increasing the activity of students in the educational process (justification of answers by means of visual aids, practical and simulated performance of tasks during practical and laboratory research, etc.);
- control of students' mastery of educational materials on the basics of military education;
- examination and evaluation of the knowledge, skills and abilities of students in the bases of military education;
- preparation of reports on the results of the academic semester in the subjects of military education.
In this regard, thanks to the use of ICT in the process of military education, the following methodological provision is shown for teachers and future military personnel (Figure 1):
Due to the increasing demand for educational services in all regions of the republic, the system of distance learning (DL) based on the use of information and communication technologies in the educational process is becoming widely popular.
In addition, the KO system is a set of educational services provided by educational institutions at any distance with the help of a special information and educational environment.
Interactive training offers many features, including downloading training materials from a virtual audience using a web browser;
communicate with faculty and students via meeting rooms, email, recorded discussions, or audio;
participate in a video conference;
working in interactive laboratories, as well as updating training course materials in real time.
The system of testing to assess the quality of students' learning is widespread among traditional and distance learning forms.
For example, in a number of Kazakhstani universities, the technology of KO is based on the formation of educational space through television and satellite data transmission channels.
However, certain conditions must be created for alternative teaching methods to become popular.
The key to success is integrating interactive learning with traditional classroom settings.
An important factor in the spread of alternative approaches to the development of the educational system is the centers of involvement of classroom teaching and universities for approbation of the KO method.
In our opinion, although the priority is given to the formation of a full-fledged form of organization of training, the day when distance education technologies will be widely used in the educational system and properly accepted by young people and the population as a whole is not far off.
Intensive development of ICT already in the scientific academy and their penetration into the social spheres of our life will inevitably affect the reform of the education system.
ICT can be effective not only when it is not used in the educational system, but when it is included as an element in the new educational system that contributes to the discovery, preservation and development of personal abilities of learners;
formation of cognitive abilities, striving for self-improvement; to provide a comprehensive study of the phenomena of reality, the inseparable relationship between science, technology, humanities and art;
constant dynamic renewal of the content, forms and methods of the education and training process.
As the practical experience of the implementation of information and communication technologies in the educational process of military educational institutions of the country shows [3,4], electronic publications (electronic textbooks, educational tools, reference books, encyclopedias, testing systems, automated training courses) are included in the new education system. , which allows for quality training of competitive specialists in the labor market capable of professional growth and professional mobility in the context of informing Kazakhstani society and developing technologies that require new science. In addition, the introduction of information and communication technologies in the educational process should be a researcher, programmer, organizer, consultant, developer of author electronic educational systems, along with the functions of a teacher.
However, the development of information and communication technologies in the educational space of Kazakhstan is limited to psychological-pedagogical improvement of a number of issues of didactics based on new technologies;
ready to use ICT in training and retraining of pedagogical personnel; insufficient number of modern information networks.
The main reason preventing its widespread distribution in military higher educational institutions is the lack of a training system for information personnel in training military personnel in the development and use of ICT.
An administrative policy is necessary for the creation of the organizational infrastructure of the modern education system, the development of strategies and tactics in the field of hardware and software, programmatic and methodological developments, and the training of teachers and employees in the program that considers the use of information and communication technologies in the educational process.
Our research is aimed at improving the effectiveness of military education by using ICT tools.
Based on the analysis and practical results, we consider the possibility of evaluating the effectiveness of military education with ICT using these criteria:
1. To train the teachers of the military cycle of higher educational institutions in the skills of working with ICT, to create them through electronic methodical support.
2. Forming skills for working with ICT, performing learning tasks together with students.
3. Creation of electronic materials that ensure effective mastering of the basics of military education by teachers of higher educational institutions.
4. Continuous and effective implementation of electronic methodical support in the educational process.
5. Analysis, evaluation and systematic improvement of electronic materials, development of methodological support of the educational process by using ICT.
During the training of military subjects, teachers have the opportunity to evaluate and analyze the effectiveness of training using these criteria, as well as to improve the electronic methodological support, taking into account the actual situation.
Creation of electronic methodical support contributes to the activeness of students, increasing their cognitive interest, forming a creative approach to solving educational tasks.
This increases the efficiency of the learning process.
Thus, the development of ICT leads to the creation of a fundamentally new educational system that ensures the provision of high-quality educational services to millions of people.
ICT in military education should be considered as a strategic decision aimed at forming a new educational system.
USING PARALLEL COMPUTING IN CREATING CROSS-PLATFORM APPLICATIONS FOR EDUCATION
Currently, the organization of creating cross-platform applications that work on different hardware platforms is of great interest.
In addition, one of the urgent issues is the creation of educational software that works on Windows, Android, iOS, and Mac OS X operating systems using parallel computing to reduce its loading time.
Parallel computing is a method of organizing computer calculations so that they work in parallel (simultaneously) as a set of interconnected computing processes when designing programs [1].
In our case, the e-reading edition built in the RadStudio XE7 environment is able to use all the cores of the processor of the device being loaded in parallel, reducing its loading time.
The article shows the effectiveness of creating a cross-platform electronic educational publication using parallel computing in the RadStudio XE7 environment.
Keywords: parallel computing, cross-platform applications, electronic educational publication.
The development of computer technology makes it possible to organize education in an interesting and rational way.
It is possible to develop the organization of the learning process using various forms of education.
For today's users, it is very important that e-learning publications can be used on various devices and that their loading time is fast.
In this regard, in the compilation of electronic educational resources, it is necessary to take into account the pedagogical skill of the teacher and the features of the taught subject, as well as to ensure fast loading using all the capabilities of the device to be loaded.
E-learning resources that can meet these requirements can be built using parallel computing in the RadStudio XE7 environment.
RadStudio XE7 platform is an environment for creating interconnected applications for Windows, Android, iOS, Mac OS X, gadgets.
The advantage of the application built using parallel computing in the RadStudio XE environment is the ability to work in parallel using all the cores of their processors at once, even if the devices are different (computers, tablets, mobile phones).
To create e-learning resources in the RadStudio XE7 environment, it is necessary to fully understand the functionality of the environment and to be able to use the components of the environment for creating e-education resources, their properties and events.
RAD Studio XE7 environment is considered one of the most convenient programs for publishing and preparing documents in URL.
The RAD Studio XE7 environment provides standard features and special functions for creating and modifying Web documents.
In addition, in this environment, it will be easy to create electronic tasks, anagrams, tests, crosswords for confirming and checking students' knowledge.
In the RadStudio XE7 environment, you can build high-performance parallel computing VCL and FireMonkey applications.
The Parallel Computing Library included in the RadStudio XE7 environment is located in the System.Threading.pas block.
Parallel computing is possible with the help of this library when creating cross-platform applications.
The parallel computing library located in the System.Threading.pas block has the following services:
 TTask - allows you to quickly execute the code in a separate thread and divide several groups of calculations into separate parts, and wait until the end of the calculations to view its results.
 TFuture - allows you to postpone (wait) part of the given calculations until needed.
 TParallel - allows you to organize a loop in the system in such a way that it effectively uses the capabilities of all processor cores.
Additionally, using the parallel computing library:
 asynchronous calculation;  several problems can be calculated together [4].
To create an e-learning publication in the RAD Studio XE7 environment, you need to fully understand the functionality of the environment and be able to use the properties and events of the components for creating an e-learning publication.
The program has all the necessary features to conduct the training process through the Internet system.
RAD Studio XE7 environment works with C++ or Object Pascal programming languages.
The selection of platforms prior to development is the same in both environments.
When creating a program, you can choose one of the C++ Builder XE7 or Delphi XE7 environments, depending on which of the C++ or Object Pascal programming languages you know well.
In our case, Delphi XE7 was selected.
Next, let's look at how to create an e-learning publication in the RadStudio XE7 environment to demonstrate the practical use of parallel computing in education.
To create a cross-platform application in the Delphi XE7 environment, the File->New->Multi-Device application ->Delphi commands are executed.
Select Blank Application from the window that appears.
In order for the e-reading publication to work on the platform required by the user, we first select the type of platform.
Then it is necessary to connect the working device to the computer on which the program will be compiled and set it up.
Next, you select the type of operating system you need from the toolbar [5].
In our case, Android (Figure 2).
If you correctly connect the required device to the computer, the name of that device will appear in the selection next to it.
If it does not appear, you can update it by selecting the Refresh Device command, which has a picture of a mobile phone.
In our case, the SM-T113 device is ready for additional creation (Figure 3). Next, select Android from the Style section.
And to display your device, select your device type from the Views section (Figure 4).
Thus, the Radstudio environment was ready to create an addition to Android.
In the RAD Studio XE7 environment, you can link e-learning publications to Web documents.
To associate the RAD Studio XE7 environment with the text of the e-learning publication, you must first create new Web documents. In our case, the following Web-documents were compiled [6]:
-index.htm – main page;
-glos.htm – glossary;
-lecture.htm – theoretical materials;
-prak.htm – practical works;
-video.htm – video lessons;
- adeb. htm - used literature.
These documents can be linked to the main window of the electronic educational publication.
For this, we select the components listed in Table 1, change their properties, and write the program code for their events.
For this, we place the WebBrowser component from the components panel on the form.
In the future, files with *.html extension will be opened in this window.
Before writing the program code, we write the ShellApi -WebBrowser component to connect to the Web document and System.Threading - for parallel calculations, System.Diagnostics - to monitor the loading time in the module section.
When the main page is loaded, we code the OnGreate event [7] using parallel computing.
And we write the following code for the OnClick event of the "Theoretical materials" SpeedButton1 button: We use the Navigate property of the WebBrowser1 component to link the program code with the main page.
Similarly, the codes are written to the OnClick events of the SpeedButton2-SpeedButton6 buttons.
And knowledge control can be automated with different methods.
In addition, you can add video lessons, rebuses, anograms, open or closed tests for monitoring knowledge to the electronic educational publication.
This allows the student to work independently.
The main window of the electronic educational publication compiled using parallel calculations is as follows (Figure 5) [8]:
In conclusion, if you use parallel computing in the e-book, you will save load time depending on the number of processors and the number of cores.
It can be clearly seen when using an e-reading publication with pictures or animation.
In our case, the loading time of this e-learning publication in series was 62 milliseconds, while the loading time of the e-learning publication using parallel computing was 38 milliseconds.
Therefore, it will be beneficial for users to build in the RadStudio XE7 environment, using parallel computing, cross-platform software tools that use the full capabilities of the device in the creation of various modern educational applications.
LESSON STUDY - AS A METHOD OF IMPROVING THE TEACHING METHOD IN A PEDAGOGICAL UNIVERSITY
The article deals with the use of Lesson Study technology, one of the new teaching methods aimed at improving the teaching result.
The relevance of the mentioned issue in the normative documents adopted in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the experiences of conducting lesson research, the need to introduce Lesson Study technology into the teaching process, and its importance in increasing the effectiveness of teaching are comprehensively analyzed.
It is mentioned that the meaning of using Lesson Study technology is to improve the teacher's professional skills, deepen his professional knowledge, and develop his professional competence.
Studying the lesson is divided into six stages, and the activities performed in each stage are analyzed in detail.
It is noted that the introduction of the proposed lesson research technology into the process of training of teaching specialists in higher education institutions allows to train specialists who are inclined to use this technology in their professional activities in accordance with the requirements of today's time.
In addition, the necessity of using Lesson Study technology in the teaching process was mentioned in order to improve the quality of teaching of subjects that provide special and professional education to pedagogues.
Key words: Lesson Study technology, stages of lesson study, training of teaching professionals, action research, planning a study lesson.
In the context of digitization, higher educational institutions are faced with the task of training a new generation of professionally competent teachers according to the current model of the Republic of Kazakhstan [1].
N. Nazarbayev in his Address to the people of Kazakhstan on the Third Revival emphasized the importance of training highly qualified specialists and the need to change the policy in the field of education [2].
The training of pedagogical specialists in accordance with the requirements of today's time requires the introduction of the most advanced technologies of the advanced world into the teaching process.
In the concept of the state youth policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, it is stated that "youth should be the accelerator and driver of putting new ideas, proposals and technologies into practice, and the progress of science, especially natural science, and technical sciences in the Republic of Kazakhstan should be connected with it.
The path of young people to science is the path of the future" [2].
In the state program for the development of education and science for 2016-2019 in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the goal is to increase the competitiveness of education, to achieve sustainable development of the economy by providing access to quality education through the development of human capital [3].
In addition, today the paradigm of education is changing to the paradigm of "lifelong learning".
Its main task requires self-development of the teacher, acquisition of new knowledge, pedagogical technologies and competencies.
In this regard, changes are being made to the general secondary education content and teaching technologies in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
First of all, this indicates the need to train specialists according to the updated educational program.
One of the main ideas of the updated education program is aimed at developing the student's critical thinking.
Development of critical thinking requires the use of new teaching methods and methods, only a specialist with sufficiently developed critical thinking can effectively use methods and methods aimed at developing critical thinking.
If we consider each student in the school as an individual, each student requires the use of individual methods.
This indicates the need to study the student's learning activities.
At present, one of the methods aimed at studying the learning activity is the Lesson Study method, and this method is effectively used in a number of countries of the world.
The Kazakh lesson study method of introducing this method into the field of education is also in the process of being actively put into practice.
Lesson Study is a special pedagogical technology that considers the study of the activities of targeted students in the classroom in order to improve the teacher's qualifications, knowledge and quality of teaching.
This method appeared in the 70s of the 19th century in the Japanese state as a method for studying the class in order to improve school practices.
In 2007, after Makota Yoshida gave a presentation on the Lesson Study method in the United States and Great Britain, this method became popular in countries outside of Japan.
According to the results of international studies, American researchers found that Japanese students have higher academic education levels than US students [4].
Analyzing the methods of teaching in the Japanese education system, the researchers found that Japanese teachers have deep knowledge of both the field of pedagogy and the subject they teach, and the method of teaching Lesson Study is widely used in Japanese schools.
Makota Yoshida explains this success with the widespread use of the Lesson Study method in Japanese schools.
Therefore, this approach is currently being actively introduced in the schools of a number of East Asian countries (Singapore, Hong Kong and China) in order to develop teachers' pedagogical knowledge and professional practice.
Also, this approach is currently used in a number of Western countries, such as the USA, Great Britain, Sweden and Canada.
The Lesson Study method is successfully used in order to improve the teaching methodology of teachers, to raise the level of education of schoolchildren in basic subjects.
At the same time, assessment for learning is used in the formation and creation of formative pedagogical approaches.
One of the main characteristics of the Lesson Study method is reflection.
Implementation of the Lesson Study method requires professional competence, more precisely, it requires compliance with a number of defined principles and its practical components.
The Lesson Study approach is collaborative in teacher training and development of their teaching and learning practices, as well as an "action research" approach as it involves a series of research phases.
In the Lesson Study method, the process of "studying the lesson" takes a central place.
It is "how to develop a pedagogical method that allows to improve the quality of education?" considers the study of the learning process of students that solves the problem.
The main characteristics of the Lesson Study method are creativity and scientific accuracy. Creativity is provided by teachers working together to create a new way of teaching, and scientific accuracy is provided by a set of data on student learning that demonstrates the effectiveness of the Lesson Study method.
Thus, the method of Lesson Study is considered to be one of the effective democratic methods of improving practice. A group of teachers using the Lesson Study method should consist of at least 4 teachers whose opinions complement each other and create a favorable working environment. In most cases, team members may consist of teachers working in the same school. At the same time, teachers from other schools can be invited to improve practice. A specialist who fully understands the ins and outs of the curriculum, who has undergone special training and has experience in using new methods, can be invited as a professional curator of the group.
All members of the group should participate in the work equally. Although one teacher is responsible for conducting the lesson, the group members are equally responsible for any results of the teaching and learning process.
In other words, only the teacher who conducted the lesson is not responsible.
Another democratic feature of the Lesson Study method is that the teacher shares with the pedagogical community.
Experiences of using the Lesson Study method for teachers are regularly published in Japan.
It supports and accompanies the research practice of teachers. A team that implements the Lesson Study method demonstrates a model of teaching the curriculum in a new way or organizes a discussion of the conducted research with colleagues.
In Japan, in the Lesson Study approach, aspects of students' personal qualities and value system are evaluated in order to humanize the activities performed in the whole school.
Thus, the Lesson Study method is one of the methods that allows to improve the professional skills of the teacher, to deepen his professional knowledge, and to develop his professional competence.
It helps to clearly see how much the student has learned.
It allows to see the difference between the activity of the student planned by the teacher and the implementation of that plan in real practice.
At the same time, Lesson Study is implemented within the framework of the professional community of teachers, the main purpose of which is to help students learn and to help the professional development of teachers in the research group [4].
P. Dudley points out that using the Lesson Study method helps an experienced teacher sift through secondary information and select only the necessary information instead.
Now let's take a full look at the Lesson Study method.
Carrying out research for lessons.
Implementation of the Lesson Study method includes three stages:
a group of three or four teachers jointly plans the lesson, conducts it, observes and analyzes the lesson (Figure 1).
More precisely, it is a group work conducted between teachers in connection with the lesson.
At this stage, the composition of the research group is fully determined.
The participation of a management representative and an experienced teacher in the research group increases the efficiency of the research.
One of the recommended activities at this stage is to select a topic based on the needs of the school, class or age group.
An example of this is the use of discussion in group work teaching.
It is mentioned that at least one hour is allocated for planning the first stage of the Lesson Study method.
A discussion should be held immediately or shortly after the end of the researched lesson.
Team members should be active for the work result to be effective.
At the same time, pedagogic advice, coaching, etc., to share their opinions with the group that conducted research using the Lesson Study method. it is better to organize [4].
Planning the first stage of the lesson study and identifying the students to be monitored. A group of 3-4 teachers at the school will select one class in the school as a study.
From the group, objects of 3 students (conditionally A - student with good progress, student with average performance and C - student with low performance) are selected from the group.
The main goal is to study the abilities and qualities of these students.
3-4 teachers work together to study the selected group and create a lesson plan together.
By mutual agreement, one teacher conducts the lesson according to the established plan.
And the other three teachers participate in the class and determine the abilities of students A, B, C selected through research objects.
After the lesson, the teachers jointly analyze the abilities of the students they observed during the lesson.
According to the results of the analysis, a conclusion is drawn, taking into account the abilities of each student, taking into account the mistakes made.
The selected students A, B and C are students of three different levels.
The method of Lesson Study allows to reveal the invisible, not often noticed abilities of students.
Taking into account such important moments, the next lesson is planned.
Pete Dudley emphasized the need to consider the following recommendations when planning a Lesson Study.
First, it is necessary to determine the class in which the research will be conducted.
After that, the students in the class are selected according to their general skills or knowledge acquired in individual subjects, business and skills, with low, average and good academic progress.
The level of each student participating in the study should be determined.
At the end of the lesson, it is necessary to briefly write down what results you expect from each student, at each stage of the lesson, it is necessary to write down what the student did in order to assess the mastery of the learning rate of the material.
The lesson plan should be clearly opened and written step by step.
The methods and learning resources used in each stage and the methods of their use should be clearly indicated.
In conclusion, during the planning of the lesson, every element of it should not be overlooked.
All the teachers in the research group should have a sample of stages of research lesson planning proposed by P. Dudley.
Secondly, in the process of improving or preparing the teaching method of the subject, the following principles of the Lesson Study method should be taken into account: the content of the taught curriculum, the needs of the studied students, the teaching methodology to be improved, changed and created during the creation of a joint curriculum, its implementation, supervision, presentation and discussion.
The main problem that is targeted during the research is not the teacher's teaching process, but the student's learning.
Researching the lesson.
The monitoring process of researchers should be sufficiently structured.
More precisely, it should be shown at a level that determines how the students accepted the methods used in accordance with the stages of the lesson, how much they participated in it, and the impact it had on the student.
For example, it can be described in a tabular form and is believed to give an efficient result (Table 1).
In addition, this table should be available to all teachers in the study group.
Usage can be shown in the form of a table.
Observers should observe the students' answers during each lesson according to the pre-prepared schedule and determine whether they match or deviate from the planned result.
In addition, observers take into account the results achieved by the students under supervision, their progress in learning, which stage of the lesson they actively participated in, which stage they were passive, and write a final opinion and a question for each student at the end of the lesson.
The period of exchange of ideas with students after the lesson.
After the end of the lesson, without delay, the research team conducts an interview with the students.
The interview can be conducted individually with each student and it should not exceed 5 minutes.
This is one of the necessary materials for planning the next lesson. Discussion after the research lesson.
The research should be done within 24 hours after the lesson.
The organizer of the lesson study can introduce the criteria for discussion of success after the study.
The main issue here is that the analysis is conducted not on the actions of the teacher who conducted the lesson, but on the actions, learning, and achievements of the students under control.
Another important issue in the discussion criterion is the appointment of a consultant who records the learning of research team members and comments it to others outside the team (Takahashi, 2005).
This is a study by foreign scientists, and one of the next issues that can be mentioned here is that there will be a journal of professional development for teachers, and the results of the research will be registered in this journal.
In conclusion, the issues to be considered in the post-study discussion are: supervision of students during the lesson study, issues related to teaching other students and their discussion, issues related to teaching materials and their discussion.
The next stage of conducting research in the classroom is to formally present the results to colleagues and plan time for research, including it in the school curriculum.
At the same time, the next stage of the Lesson Study technology involves the implementation of the problem of recruiting trainers for the purpose of promoting the professional development of the research specialist, spreading the experience, depending on the research results.
Currently, the analysis of experiences using the Lesson Study method shows that this method is often used to study high school subjects. We believe that the introduction of the Lesson Study method into the process of training of teaching specialists in higher educational institutions will allow training specialists who are inclined to use this method in their professional activities and have developed competence in accordance with the requirements of today's time [5].
In our opinion, this approach is close to technology, because the study conducted in the classroom consists of specific steps, and each step guarantees a result.
Therefore, it is better to call Lesson Study not a method, but a Lesson Study technology.
In order to introduce the Lesson Study technology into the educational process of the pedagogical university, the content of the subject should be clearly defined.
At the moment, according to the state education standard, two compulsory subjects for the specialty "Informatics" are taught, and the remaining special and professional subjects are taught at the expense of the optional component.
The content of subjects included in the selection component is published annually by the educational institution as a catalog.
At the same time, elective subjects change every three years.
One of the critical issues affecting the quality of training of specialists is the rapid change in the content of the subjects that provide special and professional education to these specialists and the fact that the content of these subjects is not clearly defined or not discussed by the appropriate specialists at a sufficient level.
We believe that it is necessary to use Lesson Study technology to improve the quality of teaching of subjects that provide special and professional education to specialists.
More precisely, by conducting research, it is possible to improve the content of the subject and its teaching methodology.
In addition, it would be much more effective to conduct a study of its content and teaching methodology and make changes in accordance with the results of the study than to change the name of the subjects taught at the expense of the elective component.
We believe that this is especially useful for future computer specialists who are studying information and communication technologies, which are developing along with the development of computer technologies.
APPLICATION OF EYE TRACKING TECHNOLOGY TO A CROSS-BORDER DOCUMENT EXCHANGE SYSTEM
In this work, the eye tracking technology was presented as a secondary system for analyzing users and electronic documents.
The received information helps to resolve the negative situations that have arisen, improves the weak points of the documents, allows to transform the ineffective parts, and contributes to the efficient operation of the system.
Metadata is created when creating, changing, sending and receiving an electronic document.
The use of eye tracking technology can have a positive effect on the electronic document exchange system.
Analyzing the movement of users' eyes, the system also improves the weak points of the documents exchanged in this system, and allows to transform the ineffective parts.
Three aspects of the use of eye control technology within the framework of the cross-border reliable electronic document exchange system were presented.
Keywords. adverse situation, information security, electronic document, document exchange system, eye control.
The process of information exchange in modern society is completely "electronic".
It can be said that digital technologies have fully penetrated into all spheres of human life, which is reflected in everyday communication and cross-border relations.
The basis of such an information society is the concept of an electronic document.
It replaced traditional paper documents and brought with it many useful properties and features.
The Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union reflects the basic aspects of international organizations, the sovereign equality of states, territorial integrity, as well as the principles of respect for the peculiarities of the political structure of the member states of the Union.
In addition, the agreement is aimed at solving the problems of improving the welfare and quality of life of the citizens of the EEA countries and provides for the free movement of goods, services, capital and labor, and the implementation of a coordinated economic policy.
Cross-border relations strengthen the trade and state relations between the CIS and the EEA (Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan) and implement document exchange processes in a modern form.
The Eurasian Economic Commission organization was appointed as a regulatory body for the purpose of regulating and managing cross-border relations of the EEU states, intensive integration of new technologies.
The commission proposed several solutions for document exchange processes.
As one of the convenient solutions, he introduced the concept of "Trusted third party (hereinafter referred to as Trusted third party)".
The working model of the SJS service is shown in Figure 1. Each state appoints this body on its own territory and instructs it to regulate the flow of information.
In the Republic of Kazakhstan, the State Technical Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ministry of Investments and Development of the Ministry of Investments and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "State Technical Service" is a republican state enterprise with the right to conduct business.
The national gateway of the Republic of Kazakhstan is integrated with the following state authorities:
1) gateway of the customs authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) integration tire of the state revenue committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
3) "Transport safety dynamics monitoring and Transport database" information-analytical system;
4) unified automated system of management of agro-production complex "E-agriculture";
5) "E-licensing" state database [1].
Cross-border electronic document exchange plays a very important role in the export and import of goods, banking systems, interstate relations, transnational companies, etc.
When sending information from one corporation to another, industry and state restrictions apply, and when institutions exchange information, national and non-national law restrictions apply.
The main element of cross-border electronic document exchange is an electronic document.
Document creation, correction, sending, receiving, safe destruction must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of information security.
One of the effective solutions is to prevent unpleasant situations that occur during document exchange.`
Analyzing the actions of a specialist during the stages of working with a document requires special tools.
In the process of working with a personal computer, in addition to the actions of a specialist with peripheral devices (keyboard, mouse, monitor), there is also an opportunity to monitor his eyesight.
The history of devices for controlling eye burns begins in the first half of the 18th century.
The initial versions consisted of rods placed on the ordinary human eye, but later on, they were used using a device in the form of an eye lens.
Currently, eye tracking trackers (further trackers) are widely used in research in psychology, marketing, web design, as an additional aid to people with disabilities.
The tracker is an indispensable tool for studying how the user interacts with visual information on the computer (software, images, video materials, etc.).
It helps to obtain valuable information, such as how the user perceives the displayed information, which part of the information attracts more attention, and which part is left out of attention.
The device must be calibrated to fix the user's eyesight.
Normally, calibration is done by having the user look at the wheels that appear at certain points on the monitor surface.
The calibration window is shown in the first picture.
By means of this, it is possible to obtain a map of the user's eye color, as seen on the monitor surface, using the points on the screen surface and the infrared rays reflected from the pupil.
The working principle of the tracker is shown in the second picture.
The technology of monitoring eye burn determines the eye in relation to the human head or point of view [2].
The main components of this technology are the eye movement recording device, recording devices and algorithms for the interpretation of the flow of images from applications.
Eye control is divided into three main types: registration (fixation), saccades and pupil size [3].
Registration (fixation) - refers to the period of stability when the eye looks at one point.
Visual information is processed during this registration.
Saccades are rapid eye movements during eye movements.
Small visual processing can be performed during saccades [4].
In the field of information security, user eye control allows users to obtain additional valuable information while working with electronic documents.
It can be said that the last years are the time when this technology is well developed.
Along with overpriced trackers (typically 15,000-20,000 USD), affordable trackers have appeared.
Despite the low price, these trackers can perform well in certain situations.
Eyetribe tracker was selected for research.
In the automated environment designed for working with electronic documents, the control of eyes is used for the following purposes: - To analyze the progress of users' work with a personal computer.
The actions taken by the user's eyes allow to create an exact profile of him.
It is recommended to enable basic authentication tools if user behavior changes.
- Creation of metadata created during creation, modification, sending and receiving of an electronic document.
Metadata is recommended to be used as irreplaceable information in adverse situations during work.
- Electronic document analysis. Provide efficient and secure document structure through source analysis.
In conclusion, the use of eye control technology can have a positive effect on the electronic document exchange system.
Analyzing the movement of users' eyes, the system also improves the weak points of the documents exchanged in this system, and allows to transform the ineffective parts.
ON THE TRAINING OF FUTURE IT TEACHERS WITH THE HELP OF NETWORK SERVICES BASED ON CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES
The article describes the impact of cloud technology on education, one of the rapidly developing areas of modern Internet technologies, as well as the need to develop competence in cloud technology services during the training of future computer science teachers.
Keywords: information and communication technologies, cloud technologies, network services, future computer science teachers.
Information and communication technologies (ICT), including cloud technologies, are an integral technological tool for the support and implementation of the educational process and the training of future informatics teachers in the conditions of informationalization of modern society and modernization of education.
In turn, this raises the issue of training pedagogical students and future computer science teachers who must have a high level of ICT competence, including a high level of competence in the field of cloud technologies, as well as the paradigm of education with competence due to the introduction of modern teaching methods and tools. emphasizes the need to update teaching technologies that support the main ideas.
As one of the ways to solve this problem, we can consider the creation of a methodological training system that ensures the formation of special competencies in the field of cloud technologies as a component of ICT competence of the future computer science teacher [1].
It is very important to organize the network interaction of future computer science teachers in situations where the diffusion of innovations is more and more based on the network principle.
Network cooperation leads to a sharp increase in the effectiveness of joint scientific and educational activities, accelerates the implementation of the results of work, and creates conditions for achieving positive social effects that ensure the equal rights of scientific and pedagogical workers and students.
Such network interaction is organized quite effectively with the help of cloud technologies.
Training future informatics teachers to effectively use modern ICT tools to organize the educational process and forming their special competencies in the field of cloud technologies is currently one of the most promising directions for improving their professional training in pedagogical higher educational institutions.
Special attention is paid to the use of modern virtualization systems and cloud technologies in the educational process.
Cloud technologies provide conditions for formation of cognitive needs of students, development of analytical abilities, increase of motivation, increase of functions of transfer and modernization of social experience using these tools, conditions for universalization of graduates (ability to learn new service tools, interdisciplinary knowledge, skills for rapid re-adaptation) , has a wide range of didactic opportunities that implement new types of educational and educational activities, stimulate the cognitive activity of students, research and design skills, and develop general intellectual qualifications.
In our situation, online information interaction of students is based on the potential and capabilities of information and communication technologies and joint (collective, group) scientific and educational activities.
Information and communication technologies predetermine not only the simple interaction of students, but also their work in the learning community mode to achieve certain goals of learning and scientific activities, to create online learning resources "by dividing areas of mutual responsibility".
Network interaction is a phenomenon that contains a huge potential even in our time and provides conditions for students to study its cumulative effects and implement them in scientific and educational work.
Collective networking is not only a productive exchange of information, but also a basis for acquiring new knowledge and skills, on the basis of which the expansion of professional (including ICT) competence takes place.
In the network interaction, the behavior of each teacher acts as a stimulus and a response to the behavior of others.
By joining the network, the teacher will have the opportunity not only to acquire new knowledge, but also to use it in practice and continue to improve his competence (including ICT competence)[2].
When training future informatics teachers, the use of cloud technologies increases the quality of learning, the level of mastery of the material, makes the teaching process continuous and systematic.
The virtual space based on cloud technologies allows to create and maintain informational learning resources, to conduct scientific work and methodological research, as well as to communicate with other educational institutions.
When using network services based on cloud technologies, the prerequisites for successful performance of a whole series of tasks aimed at increasing the quality of education and the level of education, namely:
transparency and availability of information data and knowledge, saving of financial and material resources, continuous development of the learning process through online resources, systematic monitoring of learning is ensured.
Cloud services open wide opportunities for organizing lessons, extracurricular activities and monitoring students' work not only when doing homework and independent work, but also when organizing students' design and research activities.
Cloud technologies allow not only teachers, but also future informatics teachers to quickly and effectively organize monitoring without additional time and effort.
Depending on the purposes for which they are used in the educational process and for which age groups, network services based on cloud technologies selected according to the criteria are interchangeable services.
Network services based on cloud technologies vary in complexity when using them in education, and teaching staff can choose the necessary network service according to the formulated criteria.
As a result of the use of online services based on cloud technologies, the cognitive interest of students is stimulated, the motivation to study increases, the efficiency of independent work increases, all this creates conditions for the personalization and classification of the educational process, a more rational combination of collective types of work with an independent approach to education.
Personal characteristics that can be developed and improved in the information and communication environment with the help of cloud services, among them the ability to communicate, creativity, curiosity, criticality of thinking, predictability of thinking, optimality, creative approach to work, confidence in the success of one's work, adaptability, the ability to persuade, the ability to negotiate, the ability to work in a team, empathic (the ability to feel the interlocutor), the ability to create a team and be a leader, self-development, self-control, self-improvement, creative implementation can be highlighted.
Currently, in the field of professional education, there is an active search for ways to update its content, the result of which is the modernization of educational standards, the use of new ways of organizing the educational process, which are mostly aimed at the personal formation of the future specialist.
The main goal of modernizing Kazakhstani education is to achieve a new quality that responds to the current socio-economic conditions of Kazakhstan.
A modern teacher, a future computer science teacher, has to work in constantly changing conditions, which, in turn, requires improvement of his professional qualities.
The constant development of pedagogical theories and methods, the introduction of new teaching and training into pedagogical practice shows the need for additional training of modern teachers in the field of educational technologies [3].
The teacher is the main person of education reform.
As a professional, we can highlight the following as the main characteristics of a successful teacher:
readiness for changes in rapidly changing working conditions, compactness, responsibility and independence in making decisions in non-standard situations.
Having these valuable qualities is impossible without expanding the space of pedagogical creativity, because the requirements for the teacher's qualifications are changing.
Special attention is paid to the use of modern virtualization systems and cloud technologies in the educational process of future computer science teachers at the higher educational institution.
The use of cloud technologies and online services in the course of training, as well as the creation of a methodological system of training based on them, will be an effective tool for the formation of normative competencies, as well as specific competencies [4].
Modern technologies allow you not to buy expensive software to install on your computer, you can deploy cloud infrastructure and access it from anywhere, from any equipment connected to the Internet.
It should be noted that thousands of people who have the right to access the "Cloud" can have it at the same time.
The emergence and evolution of cloud computing has led to the following technological advances:
- emergence of high-speed reliable networks;
- virtualization capabilities;
- open source software (eg, Linux, Apache, and Hadoop) that reduces the cost of software for data centers;
- adoption of open standards of web 2.0 technology, which made it easier and faster to create applications in the cloud;
- development and improvement of server equipment.
In short, the use of cloud technologies (cloud computing) in the educational process allows educational institutions to use computing resources and applications as a service via the Internet, which creates conditions for intensifying and improving the teaching process, and at the same time, improving the quality of teaching due to special functions that are not typical of traditional information technologies. [5].
Also, with the use of cloud technologies, the learning process itself becomes more accessible to students, because most of the applications in the "cloud" are free and can be accessed from anywhere in the world, at any time through an installed web browser. access can be implemented from any electronic device that supports the "cloud" service.
The emergence of cloud applications has also provided greater access to educational literature, which can be studied on any electronic devices (computers, laptops, tablets, smartphones), which makes it possible to expand the possibilities of traditional educational literature and include elements of interactivity in classes.
BUILDING MOBILE APPS WITH APPYPIE
The use of mobile applications creates conditions for increasing students' cognitive activity, forming a thinking system and working creatively.
Keywords: operating system, Android platform, application, interface, parameter, algorithm, user, testing, publishing, application design.
Creating applications for mobile devices is a modern requirement.
The mobile application program is based on the provision of special smartphones and other mobile devices.
The first mobile devices managed to manage the list of users (contacts) on the phone and send (or receive) messages to the service.
Features:
• the duration of sending graphic and video information by message is unlimited;
• convenience of additional movement;
• convenience of collecting data in the application (location, language, etc.);
• The interactive features are endless.
Appy Pie is available for Android and IOS platforms.
This program allows the user to create various mobile applications.
On April 14, 2013, Appy Pie's WYSIWYG beta version of the mobile application was released.
Appy Pie is simple and affordable to use.
You can freely review their code and the builder allows you to easily customize your application (add windows, video tutorials and chats) and also create complete and new technical professional applications in a few hours.
The main disadvantage of Appy Pie application service is that there are not enough module pages, so many users are not familiar with the code.
User can easily create simple projects with Appy Pie's main builder.
Appy Pie was created by Abhinav Girdhar.
He has thoughtfully created in-app projects at a low level of cost upon request from customers.
In 2014, Appy Pie and other similar mobile apps competed in Los Angeles [1].
Algorithm for creating mobile applications in Appy Pie:
1. to determine the category of the application to be created; 2. determine the application design and interface;
3. defining the main content of the application and dividing it into modules;
4. preparation of module contents;
5. creating a testing system;
6. publication of the testing system.
Based on this algorithm, we will prepare a test system for learners in the Appypie program.
If you want to prepare multiple applications in the Appypie program, you must first register for the program.
You can edit and add multiple pages for Appy Pie's interface.
To create an application in Appy Pie, the first step is to define the category of the application to be created.
The extension name must not be longer than thirty characters, and must contain no special characters, only ordinary characters.
Appy Pie has 24 types of categories: business, information, image, health, education, etc. [2].
The Appy Pie program created a testing system for preparation for UNT subjects.
We consider the content of the algorithm of the testing system based on one subject.
Algorithm of the Kazakh language subject test system was prepared and an appendix was created.
It was made in the category of additional education. The types of category section of the appendix are shown according to Figure 1.
In the second step, you will determine the application design and interface that you are comfortable with.
In the Customer Themes section, you can make changes to the program settings: program name and program category.
Additional design types are shown in Figure 2.
In the third and fourth steps, you define the main content of the application and divide it into modules. You also prepare the module contents.
For example, the Kazakh language is divided into chapters by subject.
Types of modules when divided into chapters are shown in Figure 3.
In the fifth step, you will create a test system.
To prepare the test system, we enter the code of the JavaScript programming language using the Codepage button.
The testing system consists of four chapters, each chapter contains 30 questions.
The code of the application in JavaScript is shown according to the picture.
In the list of navigation functions: 1. You can change the length, background, color, font of the title;
2. You can change the arrangement of sections: in the form of a matrix method, in the form of a list, in the form of sliding menus, in the form of pictures;
3. You can change the length, background, color, font, border, icon color of the text when divided into sections in the navigation style and color scheme;
4. In the page style and color scheme, you can change the font, length, main button, header size, formatting content, background, color, button text of the content on the pages.
If you want to change our add-ons in our app, you can edit your add-ons as shown in Figure 4.
In the sixth step, you will publish the testing system. If our application is ready, we will send it to the publication.
The program offers three tiers of paid services, as well as a very limited free service, which mostly features quality features for paid services.
There are three defined levels: "Basic", "Gold" and "Platinum", which represent the highest quality services.
The basic plan starts at $7 per month, is for Android devices only, and does not allow monetization (ads).
The Gold plan starts at $19 per month and is available for both Android and iOS devices, as well as monetization and unlimited push notifications.
The Platinum plan, starting at $33 per month, is available for Android, iOS, Windows Phone, BlackBerry, and Kindle Fire devices, as well as Appy Pie, which allows you to eliminate white label branding.
The step of sending the finished project to the publication is shown in Figure 3.1 (Figure 3.1).
In conclusion, our conclusion is that the prepared program is aimed at simplifying the teacher's work by using an application based on an effective and simple approach to checking the knowledge of students.
Using this built-in application is very fast and easy to understand compared to a regular browser.
Tasks and educational materials implement the method of individualization in the learning process in accordance with the level of education of the student at a high level, the control system for the independent formation of skills and abilities allows to objectively evaluate the education of the student, the system of tasks for non-repetitive multivariate increases the motivation of the student to independently assess the level of education.
One proof of the fact that tablets and smartphones, mobile applications, which are a new trend of information dissemination in accordance with the requirements of the times, are widely used in education - we are sure that the use of this prepared application by the student, preparing for the exam, will contribute to the increase in the quality of education.
ANALYSIS OF WORLD EXPERIENCE RELATED TO IMPLEMENTATION OF CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES
The article provides an analysis of foreign experience in the use of cloud technologies in education.
Cloud computing is "information that is permanently stored on the Internet and, at the request of the user, is transferred to a personal computer, game console, laptop, smartphone, etc. a collection of the latest computer developments that can be copied'.
In other words, the vast expanse of the Internet is a virtual server with an array of data that is open to many users.
You don't have to worry about whether you have enough memory or special software on your computer or other electronic device. You just need to know the exact address of the "cloud" and the Internet.
Abroad, "Cloud" technology has proven itself in business, and now they are often used in the educational process.
Analysis of foreign experiences proves that it is possible to create "Cloud" universities.
It is no different from the traditional one:
Skype communicates "live" with teachers, lectures, libraries, seminars, round tables, symposia and exams can be held.
This technology is very necessary in the process of distance learning.
Keywords: Azure Services Platform, Google Apps, Engine VMware, cloud technology, computer science, distance learning, university, experience.
Among the main companies in the market of cloud technologies, the following companies can be noted:
Google, Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, Cisco Systems, IBM, VMware, Amazon.com, Salesforce.com, Cloudscaling, OpenStack Foundation, Rackspace Hosting.
The main services include Azure Services Platform, Google Apps Engine, Amazon Web Services [23].
Azure Services Platform is a service that allows you to store data and run web applications in the remote "cloud", and also provides a remote cloud platform.
The platform includes a so-called WindowsAzure, otherwise known as an "operating system in the cloud", that manages the execution of many applications in a virtual machine of Microsoft's data center.
The operating environment working in the "cloud" is aimed at connecting the programs installed on the user's computer with the software located on the network.
Windows Azure includes Microsoft's server-like cloud products (SQL Azure relational database, similar to SQL Server, as well as Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online) and development tools (.NET Framework and Visual Studio, Windows Azure bundled in version 2010 Tools) creates a unique environment [1].
Google Apps Engine is a Google service for building and powering applications in the infrastructure of Google's data centers. Cloud applications are implemented on several virtual servers.
Officially compatible programming languages:
Python and Java. The system uses a non-relational framework called GQL to store the database with a SQL-like query language.
Amazon Web Services is a service for implementing large-scale applications and storing information on remote servers of Amazon, offering AaaS, PaaS, IaaS models.
Amazon Web Services provides data storage on Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) servers, as well as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) scalable virtual private server resource [2].
American companies were the first to notice the possibilities of cloud computing.
Vivek Kundra (Vivek Kundra) is the director of the federal department of CIO for IT technologies of the American government. In February 2011, he announced the strategy of the American government on moving part of the information systems to the cloud[24].
The document called "Federal Cloud computing Strategy" clearly describes the order and timing of moving part of the system to the cloud.
Its purpose is to reduce the complexity of managing IT technologies, to increase equipment loading to 70-80%, and to reduce the number of more than 800 Data Processing Centers (DPCs) in the United States.
Processing large amounts of data is expensive because it requires expensive servers with high computing power.
However, the US found a solution to this problem, that is, it installed several operating systems on the same "iron", the secret of which is to use the systems as if they were working on separate computers.
From this, the coefficient of useful effect (EFF) increases to 85%, if we compare each data with servers, the EFF is 10% per year.
In other words, 90% of the time the system only heats the air.
In addition to the increase in efficiency, the amount of money spent on acquiring unnecessary equipment will decrease.
Among government initiatives for a cloud computing strategy, the US strategy is the most ambitious and ambitious.
Barack Obama's administration has launched a radical IT reform aimed at reducing costs, increasing transparency and efficiency of government IT spending, and the federal cloud strategy is one of the key tools for implementation.
"Clouds" turned out to be the most suitable and popular country in Japan.
Today, this is the place where the technological and legal foundation is the most suitable for effective implementation of cloud technologies.
Japan's Panasonic Corporation is increasing the volume of "smart" home appliances, and Japan has launched a new cloud service that allows remote control of home appliances, from refrigerators and air conditioners to kitchen appliances and beauty and health devices [3].
The PanasonicSmart App allows owners of the Android operating system to remotely control the corresponding household appliances and monitor the economy of electricity consumption.
This is not the first example of Panasonic's use of cloud technology, in June 2012 it introduced the 3-Star Bistro and induction rice cooker, which allows owners to select recipes and software settings and upload them to kitchen appliances via Android smartphones.
Most conveniently, using the Panasonic Smart App, you can adjust the operation of the air conditioner, monitor the operation of the refrigerator or turn on the washing machine when you are away from home.
Thus, the development of cloud technologies in Japan goes hand in hand with new technologies.
The use of "cloud computing" by the Korean government was recognized as the best example at the UN meeting.
According to the economic report of 2013, the state platform reports on the increase in the interest in infrastructure investment, the quality of information technology and information security.
The report lists the Korean government as a leader in "network and information center management."
KT Corporation, a West Korean company, is considered one of the leading companies in cloud technology design, although even a large company like Samsung is not far behind.
Samsung plans to invest 100 million US dollars in Silicon Valley in order to increase its influence on the technology in the American market.
LG Uplus Corp has signed a collaboration with Microsoft to improve cloud technologies.
Cooperation between the companies allows LG U + buyers to use the corporation's cloud technologies.
South Korea is not far behind the development of cloud technologies from neighboring Japan.
A clear example of virtualization in Russia is the project of mobile operators MTS and VMware.
As a result of the implementation of virtualization technology, the cost of electricity use and air conditioning decreased by 20%, physical space acquisition by 60%, use of physical devices by 78%, licensing costs (OS Windows Server license) - by 85.5%.
Considering the development of cloud technology in Russia, from the point of view of the analytical company IDC, the Russian market is in the initial stage of development of the use of cloud resources, however, there is great interest in cloud resources in IT services.
According to research by IDC, in 2010, the market volume of cloud IT services in Russia amounted to $35.08 million, which is 0.006% of the Russian IT market.
Globally, the share of IT services in shared clouds is 7.5% of the global IT market.
In 2010, the Softcloud project, created by the Softline company on a unique "cloud" SaaS-platform, is considered the first project in Russia that was put into commercial use.
The first portal of "cloud solutions" in Russia, offering many services to users.
Among the companies engaged in the implementation of cloud technologies in Russia, we can not see the following:
Megaplan, Oncloud.ru, Korus Consulting, Croc, Softline, CT Consulting, AyTeko, Parking.ru.
The development of cloud technologies in Kazakhstan is progressing, albeit slowly.
For example, a representative office of "NEC Neva Communication Systems" was opened in Almaty. The representatives of the company said that Kazakhstan's IT-solutions meet the demands of small and medium-sized businesses on cloud technology.
NEC has been working in the IT market of Kazakhstan since 2006.
The main customer is "Kazakhtelecom". The services of NEC are used by other IT representatives of Kazakhstan, for example, the company "KazTransCom".
Successfully developing companies in the field of cloud technologies: LLP "Akademset", LLP AlmaCloud, LLP "ST Integrator Company", ARTA™ company, representatives of Cisco LLP "KT-Cloud-Lab", Microsoft and others. [4].
One of the mechanisms for increasing the efficiency of the use of information technologies in government agencies is the introduction of a new model of information based on the transition to the use of "cloud computing", ICT outsourcing and order consolidation.
Currently, the technologies of server virtualization and "cloud computing" models are widely used in the world practice on the basis of data processing centers.
The result of the implementation of this technology is the consolidation and saving of budget funds, the efficiency of business processes of state bodies.
Today in Kazakhstan, the introduction of "virtualization" of servers and "cloud computing" technologies has begun in the public sector.
In 2010, the server center of state bodies was put into operation, on the basis of which, since 2011, collocation services (rental of server equipment) have been offered.
On the basis of "cloud" computing, the implementation of the "unified postal system of the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan" project and the creation of the Data Processing Center in Pavlodar have begun.
In most of the world's leading countries, such as Canada, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and the USA, information development strategies or comprehensive programs have been developed and implemented both in the society as a whole and in individual spheres of activity.
In our country, emphasis was placed on the formation and development of only one of the components of the information society - "electronic government" and was successfully implemented, high international ratings are proof of this.
However, the task of forming an information society is undoubtedly more extensive than the development of only "electronic government" and the field of telecommunications [5].
The use of new information technologies in the educational process in higher educational institutions of Kazakhstan requires, first of all, new licensed software for the academic process.
For this, of course, it is necessary to have suitable modernized devices, and installing software for it requires large funds and qualified specialists.
Cloud technology comes to us as a solution to this problem.
The use of cloud technologies helps to reduce IT costs in higher education institutions and simplify the complex IT infrastructure by optimizing the workload and function of IT services.
Creating a unique information environment of the university on the basis of cloud technologies allows first of all to provide materials that meet the demand of the labor market in education, as well as to ensure the competitiveness and development of the higher educational institution.
Based on the data of the mass media, many universities in the world organizations allocate a lot of additional resources to improve their position in the international ranking.
For example, the Japanese government has set a goal that at least 10 Japanese universities will be among the world's 100 universities by 2020.
The University of Manchester (University of Manchester) noted in its strategic development plan that it will employ 5 Nobel Prize winners in 2015, which will increase the reputation and quality of research conducted at the university, as well as increase the position of the university in the world ranking tables [3].
Today, the market presents new competitive requirements among higher education institutions.
In order to be competitive, Kazakhstan's higher education institutions began to design practical proposals for market research, pricing, and targeted training of specialists.
In order to develop their competitiveness, Kazakhstani higher educational institutions are entering a new stage of their development and are participating in solving the tasks of improving electronic services.
At the same time, cloud technologies offer only necessary services to users: students - educational materials, university managers - control elements, accountants - accounting services.
The user prioritizes getting the necessary information, regardless of who provides these services and where the information is physically located.
The use of cloud technologies in the educational process has also attracted the attention of foreign scientists.
In his works, the Italian scientist Antonio Fini noted that the main prospective directions of the development of information technologies based on cloud technologies are the effective use of convenient network tools by students and the acquisition of new knowledge.
Among many new directions in the development of education, the introduction of cloud computing is the most relevant and promising.
As proof of this, the development of cloud technologies goes hand in hand with the mobility of users.
For example, according to the research of the analytical company IDC, the use of corporate smartphones in Kazakhstan in 2016 increased by 19.9% (by 12.5% in 2011), as well as the use of laptops (from 22.7% to 18.9%) and mentioned that the use of desktops will decrease (from 15.6% to 8.2%).
The capabilities of cloud technologies mentioned in the first part allow teachers of higher educational institutions not only to store all necessary information and methodological documentation in the "cloud", but also to organize shared use of the cloud for students and teachers.
At the same time, it is an indispensable tool for monitoring the progress and results of students' participation in the educational process.
Table 2 shows the problems that arise when using software and equipment using cloud technologies in the university.
Education in higher educational institutions around the world is developing every year.
Along with the capabilities of the above-mentioned cloud technologies, the analysis of foreign experiences proves that it is possible to create "Cloud" universities.
It is no different from the traditional one:
Skype communicates "live" with teachers, lectures, libraries, seminars, round tables, symposia and exams can be held.
This requires the introduction of new technologies from a pedagogical point of view.
Effective use of new technologies not only increases the level of the educational process, but also contributes to the training of specialists in accordance with market demand.
USE OF INNOVATION-ORIENTED TEACHING IN FORMING THE PROFESSIONAL CAPACITY OF FUTURE SPECIALISTS
The article describes the methodological features of innovative-oriented education for students of a higher educational institution based on information technologies of education.
In order to improve the information and computer orientation of future specialists, the features of using information technologies in the educational process are presented.
Keywords: innovative-oriented education, science, new technologies, computerization, information technologies, specialists
In the conditions of information development of modern society, there is a gap between the level of use of ready-made technologies and the level of their creation, which requires that training of highly qualified specialists cannot be slowed down through education.
In this regard, formation of professional technological competence of the future teacher in higher educational institutions remains the main focus.
The transition to a new system of innovation-oriented education increases the importance of organizing professional training of specialists from a psychological and pedagogical point of view.
Therefore, one of the methodological solutions is the formation of the professional-personal competence of the future teacher, school psychologist in accordance with the target orientation of professional training.
And as it is mentioned in the concept of development of education, mastering of several competences of forming a teacher at a high professional level is provided.
It is special competence, social competence and educational competence.
In particular, the importance of psychologist's corrective and developmental work and educational work focused on different age levels of personality formation, as well as the necessary methods of psychodiagnostics, counseling, correction and explanation, is brought to the fore.
At the new stage of development of the social environment, the educational system should meet the new economic policy, social and intellectual level of the society.
In this regard, it is necessary to revise the purpose, content and teaching methods of education, to study the regulation and organization of the educational system, and to find a solution.
It can be understood that the efforts being made to reach the world level in the higher education system, the emergence of new types of educational institutions based on various professional programs, the introduction of new types of structures and technologies into higher educational institutions are the preconditions for training future specialists in accordance with the global standards characteristic of the ongoing changes. [1].
One of the new directions of the educational system in the course of training future specialists is the formation of an innovative culture of educators.
The main attention in the researches of teachers and psychologists has always been paid to the issues of training future specialists, training them in a professional-pedagogical orientation [2].
Training of specialists at the higher educational institution is carried out by combining knowledge, science and practice, creating opportunities for formation and development of creative and practical abilities of students based on individualization using innovative teaching methods and a complex of new information technologies.
The importance of professional training of future specialists is characterized by modern requirements for the specialist's personality and activity.
This creates the need to guide the educational process of the higher education institution so as to constantly raise the general and professional qualifications.
The process of professional training in higher education is supported by special educational subjects, practice in various directions, and scientific research works, and it proves that the greater the contribution of each of these to the formation of student literacy, the more fruitful the work of the professional teacher becomes.
Modern information technologies are based on the use of computers.
Modern computers have great computational capabilities for processing and displaying formalized knowledge. It also allows to create more advanced forms of organization of knowledge and creates conditions for their use in teaching [3].
However, according to our research, it was found that the educational process of higher education institutions is not fully ready to teach the methods of formalization of knowledge.
This does not give students the opportunity to effectively use modern information technologies.
Therefore, computer capabilities are not fully used in specialist training, and this, in turn, leads to a contradiction between the achieved level of development of information technologies and currently established training methods and technologies.
In order to solve this conflict, it will be necessary to create new innovative educational technologies, which are deeply thought out from pedagogic science and teaching theory, and are aimed at solving the tasks of independent education.
Innovation-oriented professional education is a systematic result of the process of acquiring professional knowledge necessary for the subject's innovative activities in the area of public practice chosen by him, that is, the subject is popular in society through a certain level of development and his level of preparation.
The composition of the concept of innovation-oriented professional education (IBEB) consists of a general description of the guiding principles, main directions, goals, objectives, prerequisites and meaning of activities for its creation and development.
The meaning of IBKB can be understood by describing its main goals:
intelligent with innovative thinking, development of competent decision-making taking into account the innovative culture of society and the individual, responsible attitude to the professional actions of each specialist, responsibility in interaction with natural, technical and social objects.
Innovative culture represents a combination of theoretical knowledge and practical actions in complex organized systems, human value norms, values and cultural traditions, expressed in the form of a system.
Innovative mind is an adequate representation of this experience by a specialist, taking into account the responsibility and creative communication with the changes taking place in society, nature and the technosphere [4].
Innovative thinking is a process of preliminary thinking at the conceptual level and practical implementation of one's own innovative activities.
If pedagogical methods of teaching and education are in a state of organic combination with political, economic, moral and directly practical means and ways of influencing innovative minds, people's behavior, then IBKB will remain without interruption.
In order to design and implement a full-fledged educational process in the IBKB system, the following conditions must be met[5]:
• Grouping the efforts of all subjects related to the process of training future specialists, that is, forming the level of training of graduates in an innovative direction;
• The existence of a systematic method for organizing professional training, that is, it is carried out in studying special, professional subjects, during practice, when performing course and graduate work, participating in scientific research works of students, creating applied modeling programs;
• Modeling structural-content and organizational-process components of innovation-oriented professional training, taking into account psychological and pedagogical features of specialist training;
• Monitoring of the stages corresponding to different hierarchical levels of creation of teaching technologies in the system of future specialist training and orientation of pedagogical tasks of each stage to the purpose of teaching at universities;
• Gradual transition of students in professional training from understanding the information-professional value of innovative project-program tasks to the design of innovative electronic complexes suitable for use in the future educational process;
• Creation of mechanisms of educational and cognitive activities of students in the process of mastering modern methodology, organizational forms and tools of innovative actions.
Satisfying these conditions forms the necessary level of preparation of future teachers for innovative activities, ultimately increases their competitiveness and the quality of their general professional training.
"Preparation for innovative activities" means the necessary level of formation of knowledge, business, skill system, professional quality in a graduate.
The model of formation of readiness of an elite specialist for innovative-oriented professional activity requires introduction of methodical principles and system of didactic conditions into the educational process.
Based on the professional requirements of the state educational standards and the results of the analysis of school teachers using a questionnaire, the content of the training components of elite specialists in higher school conditions is determined.
Methodological principles of the organization of educational activity on innovative-oriented education based on educational information technologies include the following:
• consistency and completeness - it is carried out by creating a general convenience of compiling and selecting the teaching content at each stage of preparation for innovative-oriented professional activities within the framework of a unique system and forming a systematic and complete understanding of the essence of the problem to be solved in the future teacher;
• professional orientation - implementation of adaptation of students' educational activities to professional activities based on the use of a system of professional-oriented knowledge that ensures the adaptation of methodological knowledge to real industrial conditions;
• interdisciplinary integration - forms a system of methodological knowledge that ensures effective implementation of innovative activity;
• creative and problem-oriented - ensures the creation of conditions for satisfying and forming the cognitive needs of students based on the compilation of problem situations that reflect the actual practice of innovative activity;
• to be optimal - aimed at the optimal combination of theory and practice, concrete and abstract, logical and heuristic, individual and collective, evolutionary and rationality in the educational process;
• self-realization - study general, professional, special subjects, offer to create conditions for choosing the direction of individual education in the course and graduation design process. The organization of the process of training future teachers for innovative activities requires the identification and maintenance of didactic conditions that ensure the effectiveness of the pedagogical process [6].
To them:
• creation of an innovation-oriented professional learning information environment of the specialty, which includes coursework and graduate design work;
• comprehensive information of innovative-oriented professional training of elite specialists in higher educational institution according to the programs of special professional subjects (Information technologies, Computer networks, Artificial intelligence system, Basics of computer modeling);
• improving the structural-content and organizational-procedural components of the educational process on the basis of analysis, while monitoring the quality of students' readiness for innovative-project activity.
Therefore, a necessary condition for improving the level of preparation of graduates for innovative-project activities through innovation-oriented information technologies at a higher educational institution is to strengthen the correct and positive motivation of students for educational-cognitive and future professional activities, to develop systematic information thinking and to increase their creative potential in the educational process of the higher educational institution. is full disclosure.
Based on the above, it can be assumed that the improvement of the teacher's information-logical competence is characterized by an alternative model, taking into account the process of self-organization of software, tools, tools, related information technology tools, their direct relationship to technical tools.
In order to create such a model, other components affecting the process of development of IT tools should be considered: the level of development of the formal apparatus on which they are based; software level;
By using IT tools in various spheres of human activity, etc. should be taken into account.