( ... ) You are right, the safety of our financial instruments is increasing, deposits in banks are increasing. you correctly say that the safety of financial assets is growing , deposits are being raised in banks .
hatred of the people
energy value of consumed food
Akmola
Aktobe
Jambyl
Jambyl
cost of living
product taxes
crop production
foodstuffs
total CIS
ant
including:
girls
private houses
buckwheat
others
knowledge
Pavlodar
Kostanay
sale of non-residential housing
raw materials
cost of living
cost of living
Mangystau
Turkestan
Karaganda
Kyzylorda
crop production
reduced tariff
local self-government
percentage
city of Shymkent
average monthly nominal salary by profession and service
foodstuffs
rent for landscaped housing
foodstuffs
white cabbage
intermediate consumption products
The Vice Minister noted that active private enterprise entities are gathered in Almaty.
protein
men
gross domestic product
cargo
rice
tenge
group
raw materials
current tariff
total
product taxes
sale of landscaped housing
enforcement of contracts
percentage, increase +, decrease -
changes in manufacturing prices for industrial products
16.12.1991 years of birth
a piece of beef
western Kazakhstan
open an enterprise
clarity
take out a loan
percentage
net taxes
name of ames
Aktobe
health
sour cream
programmer (computer)
changes in import earnings prices
supply agent
in the area of water disposal:
2015.
2015.
2017.
2017.
2018.
2018.
apples
fats
property registration
Peter and Paul
landscaped residential buildings
percentage of total volume
transportation
home purchase and sale transactions
non-food items
non-food items
non-food goods
sale of non-residential housing
The Ministry of Health has suggested that the business community, for its part, undertake an alternative regulatory impact analysis that provides other ways to solve these problems.
agriculture
banana
young guys
Global Competitiveness Index
export - total
women
made
sale of landscaped housing
apartments in apartment buildings
change in wholesale price
obtain a building permit
price in construction
The specialized inter-district administrative court of Almaty was brought to administrative responsibility by the land inspector under part one of article 175 of the Administrative Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
methodological explanations
machinery and equipment
a piece of pork
natural movement of the population
changing export prices
potatoes
product
power
manufactured products
daily food consumed by the population
rent for landscaped housing
foodstuffs
chicken meat
salt
shkuk
registered in the city
January-June 2017
sale of landscaped housing
an atmosphere of zero tolerance for corruption
financial system
information on tariff obligations
j.
dynamics
professions
percentage
powdered cereal
introduction of a single electronic labor exchange.
macroeconomic stability
changes in producer prices for agricultural products
apartments in apartment buildings
apartments in apartment buildings
home purchase and sale transactions
rent for landscaped housing
non-food items
northern Kazakhstan
driver
investments
In the area of water supply:
number of home purchase and sale transactions in December
changes in producer prices for agricultural products
resolution of insolvency
unsalted butter
cost of living
cost of living
Business Reliability Index
Alma-Ata City
In the field of gas supply:
indicators
energy value of food consumed by the population
dear compatriots!
planned tariff reduction
in the field of heat supply:
improving the business climate
legal entity
pensioners and the elderly
pensioners and the elderly
area
Russia
girls
product
low-paid occupations and positions
soft cheese
price changes in construction
industrial production indices
January 2019
agronomist
Jambyl
average
butter
lamb with bones
tourism
consumer goods
for January-June
environmental protection
classifier aaoc
change
Proportion of population with calorie content below minimum limit
number of housing purchase and sale transactions for January
for February
Belarusian
maximum
congratulating the winners and wishing creative success.
engineer
transportation of commercial gas
for January
construction
price changes for individual products
high-wage occupations and positions
northern Kazakhstan
Deputy Director of Budget Policy Department Mr. Doskaliyeva addressed the seminar participants.
livestock products
taxation
changing prices of consumer goods and services
industry
Izbasarova managed to attract viewers, linking the information she provided with the economy and modern requirements.
prices of manufacturing enterprises for industrial products
accountant
vermicelli
inhabitants
Tajikistan
urban land
Uzbek
industry
changes in manufacturing prices for industrial products
price changes for individual products
Currently, the number of banks and insurance companies connected to this activity is increasing, and a number of services will be implemented this year to create favorable conditions for citizens and improve the business climate in the country.
countryside
institutes
market size
construction and installation works
made
2018 January
2019 January
natural movement of the population
2017-2018 price changes in construction
2018 January
2019 January
finished products
pensioners and the elderly
city of Shymkent
2018 i quarter
apartments in apartment buildings
industrial production indices
protection of minority investors
Commodity Market
in the field of power supply:
total value added
by January-November
nutritional content in the diet
production of goods
means of production
smoked sausage
price changes of manufacturing enterprises
Kazakhstanis should be able to take up new jobs relatively quickly, including finding work in other settlements of the country.
innovation potential
agricultural products
semi-finished products
changing prices of consumer goods and services
prices in the housing market
natural movement of the population
dear Kazakhstanis!
ultraviolet transit
1 place - frunzebekovich erzat
methodological explanations
transportation of electricity
Statistical Business Ledger
cost of living
changing prices in the housing market
changes in the prices of manufacturing enterprises for certain types of industrial products
2017.
car
turn
kefir
act
diamonds
Armenia
to throw out
agricultural products
Akmola
to whitewash
Aktobe
fraction
demography
deflator
minimum
labour market
general
semi-finished products
gin
legal entities
Mangystau
Mangystau
price of meter, tenge
Moldova
end
reverse deflator
average tariff
Pavlodar
pasteurized milk
portland cement
Taldykorgan
Taraz
Turkestan
Turkmenistan
Turkestan
changing prices in the housing market
Ukraine
tea
economist
connection to power supply system
Karaganda
Kostanay
Kyzylorda
Kyrgyzstan
tenge with VAT
Azerbaijani
purchase price of industrial enterprises for production and technical purposes
prices of industrial production enterprises
industrial production indices
to simplify as much as possible the process of registration of self-employed and create conditions under which it will be beneficial for them to faithfully perform duties to the State.
An electronic version of the bulletin "Statistical indicators of decent work in the Republic of Kazakhstan" for reading the results of this statistical observation and full study is available on the website www.stat.gov.kz in the section "official statistical information," operational data (operational information, bulletins). "
A set of measures is being taken to modernize public consciousness.
labour instability ratio - the average number of workers per list during the reporting period is determined by the ratio of workers released for reasons of instability during the period.
Within the framework of the programme for measuring decent work of the International Labour Organization (hereinafter referred to as "heu"), the Statistics Committee of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Positive difference in interregional migration:
after that, Serik Zhumangarin familiarized the participants of the round table with the work of the Ministry of National Economy to reduce tariffs on monopolist services, saying that in the new year the population expects a pleasant "gift" regarding a significant reduction in tariffs in such areas as electricity, heat, gas, water supply and sanitation.
for able-bodied low-income citizens.
Regional policy in the country is aimed at improving the competitiveness and quality of life of the population regardless of place of residence.
the index is a unique evidence-based diagnostic tool to investigate service barriers.
the bill also provides for a reduction in the tax burden of Kazakh carriers.
Rural consumption is more caloric (fertile) than urban consumption.
Participants in the meeting expressed their proposals for improving legislation and expressed their willingness to participate in the development of relevant proposals within the framework of a standing working group under the Ministry.
through amendments, it is also planned to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of entrepreneurs in interaction with subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere.
Positive difference in interregional migration:
for enterprises specified in the instructions of the prosecutor's office, it is necessary to conduct press tours with the public participation of representatives of the garden in order to organize the accounting of managers for the facts specified in the order of the prosecutor's office.
intensive development of agriculture should be carried out in accordance with the quality and environmental cleanliness of products.
it consists of a food basket and a fixed share of non-food goods and services.
The Business Code consolidates the main approaches aimed at regulating the prevention of anticompetitive actions of market participants in the field of competition.
in Geneva, the DSC reviewed specific presentations of the Eurasian Economic Union Treaty.
Peculiarities of procedures for drafting and revising a plan for revising regulatory instruments.
The subsistence minimum is the minimum cash income per person, equal in value to the minimum consumer basket.
global trends show that it should be based primarily on the broad introduction of the fourth industrial revolution.
What problems in ensuring the quality of services arise in regional departments and akimats, which first of all hear about it from the public?
Positive difference in interregional migration:
implementation of projects will be carried out in accordance with the group of goods registered for one particular type of product.
these universities are required to update their curricula and become centres of excellence in the agro-industrial sector.
the check was carried out on the basis of the entrepreneur's complaint about the unlawful actions of the land inspectorate of Almaty, which entailed a violation of the businessman's legal rights.
creating conditions for ensuring the efficiency of the labor market and the realization by everyone of their potential.
On the second initiative, experts note that reducing the tax burden on low-paid workers stimulates their optimization of the tax burden.
our young scientists need to allocate quotas within the framework of scientific grants and implement a systematic policy of their support.
current health care should focus on disease prevention rather than on expensive inpatient treatment.
The furnace district of West Kazakhstan region scored high points in terms of the quality of communal networks, the effectiveness of the local executive body.
then submit an application to the district akimat or akimat of the city of regional significance about their desire to participate in the project.
the number of employees amounted to 6.6 million people, or 75.8% of the total number of employees in the economy.
In his speech K. The representative of the Ministry elaborated on the measures taken in the framework of legislation on rehabilitation and bankruptcy regarding the reduction of the time for bankruptcy proceedings and administrative costs.
the content of training should be harmoniously complemented by modern technical support.
universities need to be given more rights to create educational programs and legislate their academic freedom.
we must begin to introduce in medicine technologies of genetic analysis and artificial intelligence, which significantly increase the effectiveness of diagnosis and treatment of diseases.
consumers can quickly get answers to questions that concern them about the activities of subjects of natural monopolies.
The definition of indicators was based on the different practices in the area of activities to which they apply.
A. Orazgulov at the end of his speech urged civil servants not to forget the requirements established by the ethical code.
in the near future, according to the heads of industrial enterprises, an improvement in financial and economic activity is expected compared to the current time.
Following the meeting, the Ministry of Health makes adjustments to the analysis of regulatory impact in accordance with the recommendations of the members of the expert group.
The Committee and its territorial units will respond to unscheduled inspections.
Measures are also being taken to provide raw materials to extractive industries by providing subsidies to agricultural producers for each tonne of sugar beet processed.
the increase in real cash incomes was influenced by measures taken to slow inflation and increase incomes of the population.
the rating is based on both objective data of official statistics and subjective data of the questionnaire.
WTO member countries understand that modern realities require the organization to make modern decisions, both flexible and flexible.
to attract additional investment in the economy.
one employee in the regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan
it should collect all information about vacancies and applicants.
In order to simplify the procedures for connecting to the power supply system, the Ministry of Energy has amended and supplemented the rules for the use of electric energy, which allow combining the procedures for concluding an electricity supply contract and sealing electric energy meters.
Issues requiring additional time for study were monitored and instructions were given to the heads of the relevant structural units of the Ministry.
and on the basis of the results of compliance with regulatory impact analysis procedures for regional entrepreneurs.
Based on the results of the seminar-meeting, the ethics commissioners made recommendations on the adoption of measures aimed at protecting the violated rights and legitimate interests of public servants and conducting restorative and awareness-raising measures.
The WTO accession negotiation process is seen as one of the most complex and unique negotiation processes in WTO history.
inefficient subsidies should be reoriented towards cheaper bank loans for agricultural entities.
There is an effective housing accumulation system that makes housing accessible to the population.
agreement was reached to continue the ongoing dialogue at the expert level.
An explanatory event was held by the Speaker on the prevention of violations of public service ethics standards aimed at improving the level of ethics.
In conclusion, M.Zzhunisbekova wished the conference participants success and achievement of the set tasks.
To minimize administrative costs, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of specifically necessary subordinate organizations.
the panel discussion was moderated by:
The purpose of this event is to provide methodological assistance for the implementation of certain norms of the agreement.
The number of self-employed among the employed population was 2.1 million, or 24.2 per cent.
the successful implementation of the reform of local self-government is impossible without the development of the competencies of representatives of local executive bodies.
Experienced employees of regional akimats take part as lecturers.
in general, the VAT rate in most demand networks is low or zero.
Fully supporting the functioning of agricultural entities in the form of cooperatives.
Mechanisms for the conclusion of inter-agency agreements to ensure the administrative cooperation of the competent authorities.
Differentiation based on the socio-economic situation of the regions and the demand for capacity to pay should be used in determining criteria.
Deputy Director for Legal Affairs of the Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the city of Atameken ukp-Almat on behalf of many small and medium-sized businesses raised the issue of banning by akimats parking on a number of streets of the city, which led to restriction of entrepreneurs' access to shopping facilities.
discussion of the practice of applying international treaties and acts constituting the law of the union in the field of taxation;
per capita is $9,409.
By the way, the company's sales manager Ayan Zhumabayev began his presentation in Kazakh.
Agreements reached in the field of electronic commerce.
The initiator of the run is the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
in addition, two thirds of the growth is provided by the non-oil industry.
However, the cost of connecting to the world electricity system decreased by 4.3 percentage points.
it is necessary to radically review the organization of the Alatau park of innovative technologies.
it consists of a food basket and a fixed share of non-food goods and services.
Timur Suleimen said that over the past three years, a record low has been achieved.
from the establishment in the actions of Kcell JSC of conditions of tariff plans that infringe on the legal rights of subscribers when providing services to access the mobile Internet on the basis of kcell according to the results of the investigation (including not to inform the subscriber about the transition to higher charging with restriction of the subscriber's ability at the end of the bonus batch of services provided by the subscriber during early switching of tariff plans, improper informing subscribers about the material conditions of tariff plans).
The committee is a permanent advisory and advisory body of the board of directors of the fund.
Rural villages and settlements are being actively updated.
secondly, legislation provides for the use of freight and factoring to finance an enterprise;
Establishing common approaches to tax policy with Member States in agreed directions;
the achievement of these tasks requires the unity and solidarity of the whole society.
this is the essence of spiritual modernization.
the law also provides for reducing the tax burden for Kazakh carriers.
the main task of preliminary control is to identify the causes and circumstances of illegal actions of the subject of control, explain the legal consequences of the offense and convince the controlled subject of the need for his activities within the framework of the law.
the plan is aimed at strengthening the atmosphere of transparency of procedures and zero tolerance for corruption in the team.
average monthly wage of employees of modal value was KZT80,021
changes in prices and tariffs across sectors of the economy
The forecast of "stable" Kazakhstan includes relevant amendments made by analysts to improve the economic situation, government bonds at minimum oil prices. Assessing the performance of the banking system.
therefore, our exchange rate for the manufacturing sector with high productivity has not changed.
Deputy Speaker of the Lower House of Parliament Vladimir Bozhko called on the head of the republic to conduct large-scale information work among the country's population on the privatization carried out.
set themselves the goal of becoming one of the thirty most developed countries in the world.
modern technologies allow you to effectively solve the problems of a rapidly growing metropolis.
In order to increase the status of a teacher, I instruct to increase the official salaries of teachers who switched to the updated content of education by 30 percent from January 1, 2018.
ECE introduced an anti-dumping duty of 33.69% on aluminum wheels from China for five years.
To increase the potential of the nation, the further development of our culture and ideology is necessary.
The minimum consumer basket is the minimum set of food, goods and services necessary for human life support, in physical and solar terms.
it consists of a food basket and a fixed share of non-food goods and services.
to improve the assessment of widespread credit risks into existing credit bureau legislation and other credit scoring provisions.
There is a need to strengthen public health management by promoting healthy lifestyles.
World Bank experts have now completed the information required for the study.
also alikhan smailov expressed gratitude for the fruitful work of the department under the leadership of Timur Suleimenov.
a strategy for the future. "
As a result of the consideration, it was recommended to prepare a bill for the second reading.
this is also affected by the introduction of an independent local government budget.
issues of formation of anti-corruption culture and the situation of intolerance to corruption are under constant control of the leadership of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Commissioner for Ethics of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The minimum consumer basket is the minimum set of food, goods and services necessary for human life support, in physical and solar terms.
Earlier, the city authorities decided to remove the metal structure on the roadway along al-Farabi Avenue and transfer it to the fence in the form of a Christmas tree.
The conclusion of the agreement will improve the conditions for the supply of Kazakhstani goods to the Serbian market.
repeated extension of the verification period.
According to the results of the above race, the 1 place was taken by the chief expert of the department for monitoring compliance with the ethics of the department for working with human resources by age 50-59 years.
regions are connected via videoconferencing.
Chairman of the Committee on Statistics of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurbolat Aydapkelov acted as a speaker.
in general, the draft law provides for the following conceptual objectives:
non-application of the conditions of the parties under the agreement on the union, which impede the implementation of the rules of the single market, on the prohibition of the deterioration of the mutual access agreement compared to the conditions in force during the signing of the agreement and the conditions approved by the agreement on the union; there are also obstacles to the implementation of such rules as the establishment of new or additional permissive conditions and procedures not applied during the signing of the contract, this is unacceptable and impedes the freedom of service.
The minimum consumer basket is the minimum set of food, goods and services necessary for human life support, in kind and in value.
the results of the program are reviewed in the framework of regular meetings of the German-Kazakh management committee.
In addition, the World Bank noted an increase in the number of payments, the time for paying taxes.
made presentations as Speaker:
it consists of a food basket and a fixed share of non-food and paid services.
integrated implementation of urban environment management based on the concept of smart city and the development of competencies of people moving to the city.
they should stimulate, first of all, technology transfer.
The rights of lawyers and the scope of judicial control of the pre-trial instance have expanded.
the main player is the issuer of government securities.
Is the inclusion of other specialists on the project list under consideration?
The interest of global investors will also increase.
the Commissioner for Ethics a took part in the republican forum. Orazgulov.
the share of expenses for low-consumption non-food goods and services intended for calculating the subsistence minimum was set from January 1, 2018 at 45 percent of the cost of the minimum consumer basket.
percentage increase from previous month
The minimum consumer basket is the minimum set of food, goods and services necessary for human life support, in physical and solar terms.
Iran is a promising market for increasing exports of Kazakh products.
mobile water treatment system created by them with remote control.
through amendments, it is also planned to ensure the protection of the rights and interests of entrepreneurs in interaction with subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere.
In turn, the representative of Kazakhstan called on subordinates to observe the balance of interests.
progressive translation of applied scientific research into English.
A regular meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship was held in Kazakhstan under the chairmanship of the Director of the Department of Development of Large Business of Kazakhstan Aslanbek Dzhakupov.
monetary policy strengthens processes to reduce inflation and inflation forecasts.
The meeting expressed its proposals for improving legislation and expressed its readiness to continue to participate in the development of relevant proposals.
Thus, at a seminar in the Altai Territory, technical difficulties were noted that impede the implementation of powers in terms of imposing an administrative fine.
investments in exploration in subsoil use.
Due to the increased interest in the project, the ministry intends to once again recall the conditions of the project.
Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the region Zhakupov on the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized businesses in the plot of the Stovy TV channel
The purpose of currency hedging is to protect against adverse exchange rate changes.
The status and composition of the advisory committee shall be approved by acts of the boards of the council.
Participants in the subbotnik cleared the territory from Kabanbai Batyr Avenue to Bokeikhan Street.
in addition, Tulebayev Ravil Kuanyshbekovich explained the norms of the legislation on activities and anti-corruption, and also gave relevant explanations to the Ministry's employees on questions indicating a video about the facts of violation of ethics standards by state employees.
The system of decent labor indicators in the Republic of Kazakhstan has been formed since 2001.
Measures have been taken to address the following issues:
the purpose of public acceptance is to strengthen the feedback of the authorized body with consumers, as well as to ensure transparency of the activities of subjects of natural monopolies.
percentage of previous month, increase +, decrease -
percentage increase from previous month
Participants in the subbotnik cleared the territory from Kabanbai Batyr Avenue to Bokeikhan Street.
The subsistence minimum is the minimum cash income per person, equal in value to the minimum consumer basket.
He also noted that as a result of the cardinal measures taken by the ministry in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to reduce unreasonably high tariffs, the average annual increase in utility tariffs was reduced by an average of 2.4%.
subsistence minimum - the minimum cash income required per person, equal to the cost of the minimum consumer basket in size.
rent for landscaped housing remained at the level of last month.
employees of the ministry were awarded the Veteran of Labor medal, the badge "Best Public Servant," "Excellence in the Legal Field," an honorary diploma and a letter of thanks on behalf of the minister.
Also, the antimonopoly committee appealed to the court with a statement on forcing Kaztransgaz Zone JSC to completely return the funds to consumers.
The subsistence minimum is the minimum cash income per person, equal in value to the minimum consumer basket.
at the same time, as members of the expert group and business representatives noted, the regulator should be presented with a high-quality and clear statistical representation that describes the benefits and losses of all market participants.
almost everywhere, the negative practice of concealing crimes has been abolished, at present no statement is ignored.
new educational programmes should be developed to meet the requirements of professional standards or existing ones should be updated.
Work books should also be converted to electronic format.
Vice Minister heard the report of the committee and heads of its territorial divisions on the measures taken and carried out by subjects of the natural monopoly to reduce tariffs.
who works more, he will receive a pension.
entrepreneurs rent trucks and buses, restore them, leave daily to feed hundreds of people and constantly change their places.
adoption of the law on bankruptcy of individuals.
The volume of retail trade in January-December 2017 amounted to 8847.1 billion tenge or 106.3% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2016 (in comparable prices).
During the conversation, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of Asan Darbaev noted the importance of an open and effective dialogue between the state sphere and civil institutions.
Within the framework of fiscal decentralization, it is necessary to solve the issue of transferring corporate income tax from small and medium-sized businesses to regional budgets.
Currently, a draft of amendments to the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is being developed, providing for a change in the amount of the lifting allowance within the project.
Number of home purchase and sale transactions in May
in addition, negotiations are under way on domestic market protection measures and rules for determining the country of origin of goods, which should be agreed upon in the future.
these acts constitute a flagrant violation of the Business Code.
To encourage such enterprises, existing enterprises carrying out modernization and reconstruction projects are provided with benefits per cent.
local content is supported with the block.
the change in prices for some goods is associated with its share in the consumer basket and does not always coincide with inflation.
in this regard, the bill provides for:
in addition, the shift to an inflationary target transition with a more flexible transfer rate strengthens effective monetary policy and improves the institutional capacity of the state.
Powers and limits of law enforcement responsibility.
its part is located on the eastern bypass road along al-Farabi Avenue.
such seminars are regularly conducted by experts and practitioners of the secretariat, based on materials read in the context of special work.
Detailed information on the work carried out to improve DF performance in terms of factors is provided to representatives of def in the form of special presentation materials.
Over the past 3 years alone, more than 2.5 thousand people have been convicted of corruption, including high-ranking officials and heads of state-owned companies.
about 150 representatives of local executive bodies gathered these events.
for example, the cost of white gas "Kaztransgaz zone" is formed through the price of gas, which it buys from the system operator.
As participants noted, to date, previous reforms to ban smoking in public places do not work completely and do not allow protecting people from passive smoking.
a feature of this race was an equal start throughout the republic.
increasing requirements for energy efficiency and energy saving of enterprises, as well as environmental cleanliness and efficiency of energy producers themselves.
increased departmental control over the legality and validity of the measures taken against the signals of individuals and legal entities, as well as over the prompt and complete investigation of criminal cases or the resolution of materials on administrative offenses.
As the aslanbek of jacupes noted, such an event is held for the first time to identify systemic problems of entrepreneurs associated with various administrative barriers.
wheat flour bread of grade 1
the introduction of digital technologies and the creation of an intelligent transport system will reduce the time for the transportation of goods and multiply the income from transit.
it must be implemented decisively and actively.
The difference from the current inspection is the prevention and prevention of offenses before the initiation of an administrative case.
Participants noted that although many indicators are already included in the strategic documents, the environmental part of the tdm is not sufficiently integrated.
In addition, a separate meeting was held by the Office of Entrepreneurship to draw up a conclusion on compliance with procedural procedures.
The Ministry is currently considering appropriate amendments to the launch of the local budget to cover the residual requirements of the regulations.
the requirement for the validity of the allowance will be strengthened.
at the first stage of the competition, it was instructed to translate into Kazakh the text with often used terms in the field of economics, at the second stage to translate into Kazakh the terms in the field of economics that are often found in the documentary work of employees, and to write in letters of Latin graphics.
an increase in the life expectancy of the population and an increase in medical technologies.
Regional standards of quality of life in the regions.
based on the results of the meeting, appropriate recommendations were made on the implementation of anti-corruption policy and strict compliance with performance ethics standards.
this initiative will increase the demand for one population group and will have a positive impact on the economy as a whole.
the system purifies 330,000 cubic meters of water per day.
procurement prices of industrial enterprises for production and technical products
The Kazakh manufacturer of Vector Pavlodar LLP supported the introduction of this measure.
to do this, we must focus on the following tasks.
The ministry emphasizes that the removal of discounts on the transportation of sugar for a number of producers does not affect the occurrence of any shortage or increase in prices.
the main task of preliminary control is to identify the causes and circumstances of illegal actions of the subject of control, explain the legal consequences of the violation and convince the controlled subject of the need for legislative order. the main tasks of preventive control will be to identify the causes and conditions of the unlawful conduct of the control subject , explain the legal consequences of the offense and convince them of the need for law-abiding behavior of the controlled entity . "
Number of home purchase and sale transactions in March
The concept of forum activities will be expanded through interactive events.
a definition was drawn up against the offender demanding to cancel the illegal inspection, an administrative case was instituted.
Improving the tax administration of Member States, including tax controls on transfer pricing;
In 2000-2013, he held various positions in the tax committee system.
in three lagging regions, falls are increasing.
electronic phytosanitary certificate exchange information system.
The second day of the seminar is devoted to explaining the novelty in the field of rat.
lending is carried out in accordance with the contract for the production of at least one product from the list of goods registered for one particular type of product.
the project will be implemented in a cluster way.
According to him, there is a shortage of strategic investors to ensure demand in the market.
the structure of the tax code has been changed.
and continue to improve the services of natural monopolies.
New Opportunities for Development in the Fourth Industrial Revolution
the main migration exchange in the country takes place with the CIS states.
in addition, according to the Committee on Statistics, 2,346 public servants were subjected to anonymous surveys by ethics commissioners, which revealed that public servants were generally satisfied with the moral and psychological situation in the team.
The main task of the strategy committee is to classify important strategic objectives as follows:
forum participants can register on the congress website.
according to the speaker, the introduced institute of preventive control will allow establishing partnerships with business entities and radically change the presence and behavior of inspectors under the current system of state control and supervision.
for all questions, please contact:
Prevention and prevention of non-administrative offences.
video reviews and videos of the best teachers of secondary schools and colleges and universities.
Corporate governance rules in the private sector will be implemented and corporate governance ratings assigned to the risk management system of regulatory bodies will be compiled.
the acquired knowledge during the seminar is confirmed by performing group practical tasks and discussing the completed tasks together with the seminar participants.
kaztransmission specialists explained the problem in detail.
at the same time, the Kazakh side declares its readiness to attract sufficient candidates of the appropriate level of professional qualifications, as well as to conduct fair selection of participants together with German coordinators.
at the same time, beverage production declined.
he noted that in order to ensure feedback of the authorized body with consumers, the department, together with the subjects of natural monopolies, conducts a monthly public reception of consumers.
Number of home purchase and sale transactions for December
The acceptance turnover ratio is the ratio to the list number of employees in the flow of the reporting period, on average, to the number accepted for the period.
Legislation has been amended to strengthen the protection of the rights of citizens in criminal proceedings and to mitigate its rigidity.
In this regard, experts noted that the adoption of the initiative to build student dormitories is an urgent issue.
A system of suitable labour indicators is available on the official website of the Committee on Statistics in table www.stat.gov.kz > official statistical information (by industry) > employment > decent labour indicators.
thanks to coordinated and consistent work to date, significant results have been achieved in reducing the burden on domestic entrepreneurs.
In addition, in connection with the completion of the explanatory and informational meetings, some entrepreneurs heard consultations and clarifications on the regulation of entrepreneurial activities from the deputy director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of Kazakhstan A. Zhakupov.
percentage of the corresponding period of the previous year
Deputy Head of the Expert Group on Entrepreneurship Gulnar Kurbanbaeva gave a positive assessment of state regulation within the framework of the entrepreneurial code.
The new tax code revised the return of the value added tax debit balance.
The exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana showed how dynamically alternative, "clean" energy is developing.
the role of agrarian universities should therefore be reconsidered.
this will diversify its own sources of financing, thus managing cash flows as effectively as possible.
at the same time, the pattern of emissions has undergone minor changes.
hundreds and thousands of mobile restaurant vans on the roads of European states and the United States.
726 coniferous trees, the rest are broad-leaved species.
the differentiation of the decile coefficient of the average monthly salary was 6.6.
state bodies should also use modern digital technologies to take into account comments and suggestions of citizens in real time and quickly respond.
on investment preferences in tourism in order to increase the mutual flow of tourism between countries.
exemption turnover ratio - ratio to the list number of employees in the flow of the reporting period on average to the number of released during this period.
the consumer price index, which characterizes inflation, reflects the change in the prices of goods and services purchased by the population for their own consumption.
These workshops provide training to local authorities on how to carry out the analysis and how to assess the costs and benefits of the introduced regulation.
Also, representatives of the authorities held a separate meeting to explain the procedure and justification for submitting applications and complaints to the commission about violation of general competition rules in the EAEU cross-border markets.
number of home purchase and sale transactions for August
In order to improve the environmental situation, amendments and additions are made to the legislation regarding the increase in administrative sanctions for violation of environmental legislation.
Zhumangarin also noted that proposals for the sale of large state property and assets of the samruk treasury will be regularly considered at meetings of the state commission on economic modernization.
in this regard, the Ministry of Health needs to implement previous reforms at the appropriate level before introducing a new ban.
This year Kazakhstan oversees the negotiating group to further reform the rules of trade in services.
Measures to ensure an enabling environment and factors for improving the domestic and external competitiveness of large cities.
in addition, domestic producers will be assisted in concluding long-term guaranteed contracts with large companies.
According to the Vice-Minister, the bill provides for a clear regulation of the activities of natural monopolies and quasi-state spheres provided to business at present in the manner and on the conditions established by these entities.
however, some of them were answered comprehensively.
wholesale of products, goods
in general, regional policy should be aimed at stimulating the growth of the regions' own income from equalization of expenses.
Number of home purchase and sale transactions for November
Institute of Prevention.
the main migration exchange in the country takes place with the CIS states.
Active implementation of integrated information technology platforms.
how long will the project run?
when considering the application, the antimonopoly authority conducted a detailed analysis and assessment of competition in the cellular services market.
lecturers created a model of problem situations, the solution of which was submitted for discussion by akims within each group.
Canadian experience was considered as an example.
in addition, the bill will solve the problems associated with obtaining land rights.
the fight to prevent corruption.
- A multifunctional anti-corruption project office is organized by the function of the call center;
for the qualitative implementation of the process on the basis of regional training centers with the involvement of trainers trained in the Academy of Public Administration, training courses were organized for akims of rural districts and employees of their apparatus.
Further, the parties will consider the feasibility of moving to a full-format agreement on a free trade zone in accordance with international rules.
human capital is the basis of modernization.
The main theme of the lecture was the role of dsu in a dynamically developing modern world.
sustained awareness-raising and anti-corruption education significantly contribute to cultural development and the formation of an active citizen's position in the perception of corruption.
systematic work is underway to promote industrialization.
various countries participate in annual high-level wef collections and bring together more than 3,000 leaders in shaping a global agenda to solve problems in various sectors of the economy.
in these standards, employers and businessmen clearly define what the knowledge, abilities and competencies of workers should be.
the law also provides for the reform of compulsory services provided by subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-public sphere.
60 steps have already been completed.
in most regions of Kazakhstan, the average age of women at birth was higher than the average republican level.
a serious crime in favor of affiliated companies of shareholders and individuals.
Proposals made by consumers through this framework will be systematized and discussed at public hearings.
driverless equipment will reduce the human factor and significantly reduce the cost of agriculture.
index1) prices of manufacturers of industrial products
since the annual def forum is traditionally held in the Swiss mountain resort of Davos, it received such an unofficial name.
percentage increase from previous month
The actions of the company revealed the fact of violation of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of competition protection, expressed in the application of various prices or various conditions for reasons that objectively do not justify even agreements with market entities or consumers for services for the storage of telecommunications equipment.
The population may receive services not guaranteed by the State as a participant in the compulsory social health insurance system or through voluntary health insurance, as well as joint payment.
The Eidu territorial review of Kazakhstan and the urban policy review provided a thorough analysis of regional and urban trends and recommendations for improving territorial policy and governance.
Considering that the workload of our students is the highest among the CIS countries and on average more than a third more than in the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
there was a need to review the rationale for such translations and to bring the Kazakh language closer to the international level in terms of terminology.
Following the meeting, the chairman of the primary party organization instructed to intensify and strengthen the work, as well as the tasks of the leader of the Nұr Otan party.
in addition, it is necessary to encourage and take action on those who will effectively develop the land and those who will not be able to use it correctly.
in addition, the bill will solve the problem related to the right to obtain land.
but it is necessary to critically repurpose the organization of commodity industries, positions regarding the management of natural resources.
however, now this is not enough.
on the part of both departments, responsible persons were identified who supported a constant and active exchange of views on these issues.
at least one subsistence minimum, about 14 thousand families receive such an allowance every month.
the minimum wage is set by the janitor of premises in the field of education and public administration for 15.6 thousand tenge.
in addition, a suitable systematic approach to phased implementation is needed to rapidly increase microcredit.
the need for further reform of entrepreneurial legislation in order to ensure a unified understanding and application of entrepreneurial legislation by courts, other law enforcement agencies, both the main participants in entrepreneurial relations, and a phased expansion of the scope of the entrepreneurial code in terms of regulating relations characteristic only of business entities, experts from the International Academy of Strategic Studies of Daulbaeva-Mukhtarov and Esther Babajanians said.
The main objective of the round tables is to hold discussions on the merger of new members based on the rules of the multilateral trading system.
in the public reception, monopolists reported on how to implement the tariff estimate and investment program.
Consumer issues are resolved systematically.
hidden unemployment (non-working employment) - the number of workers working in the reduced working week or part-time mode, as well as workers on administrative leave without maintaining wages or partially paid wages.
now they are supported by the copper center.
in the modernization of existing enterprises and the reconstruction of existing capacities, benefits are not provided.
the announced measures are aimed at improving the well-being of the population.
we adopted the Kazakhstan-2050 development strategy, taking into account the need for preparedness for global changes and challenges.
Within the framework of this event, issues of the implementation of the entrepreneurial code, shortcomings and contradictions were discussed, and further steps were identified to improve entrepreneurial legislation.
now the pension system is fully tied to work experience.
Also, within the framework of the forum, T. Suleimenov met with the Deputy Minister of Economy of the United Arab Emirates.
the purpose of the competition is to increase the status of the state language by encouraging civil servants to work with documents in the Kazakh language.
among the employed, the number of self-employed workers, that is, those employed without employment, amounted to 2.1 million adams or 24.5%.
the industrialization program is successfully implemented.
the minister recalled that currently checks of subjects of natural monopolies have begun in the country.
it has both its own challenges and opportunities.
there was no doubt that it should be introduced.
The business meeting is chaired by the chairman of the white board "baiterek" ubh "a.ariphanov. and the president of the Makham company, Jose Fernando Sanchez Hunco.
since the annual def forum is traditionally held in the Swiss mountain resort of Davos, it received such an unofficial name.
Measures will be taken jointly with the public to address the most pressing environmental issues and develop an environmental monitoring system.
the position on the three factors has not changed.
The World Bank consolidated rating consists of a number of parametric indicators of each country, representing a discount on starting and doing business.
thus, the following officials of the territorial divisions of the committee were punished by a reprimand:
According to the Ministry of Justice, the requirement to provide a charter for private business entities has been abolished.
During the public reception session, the commission experts familiarized the meeting participants with the activities of the bloc on competition and antimonopoly regulation, provided the necessary information on the legal regulation of protection of general competition rules in the EAEU and liability for violation of general competition rules in the EAEU cross-border markets.
Considering regional consumption, it should be noted that the level of real energy value of food consumed by the population in all regions of the country exceeds the level of minimum energy value needs.
introduction of new technologies and business models, increasing the knowledge intensity of the agro-industrial complex will increase the need for farm cooperation.
in particular, during the implementation of the business code, the number of inspections decreased by 2.5 times, the number of information tools requested from business entities was significantly reduced, and was protected from a number of unreasonable requirements for business entities due to the introduction of regulatory impact analysis.
during this period, they developed a fairly practical experience and a unique model by which they can share with each other.
at the same time, funds are not returned to the population from recalculation of the cost of heat supply services taking into account the actual temperature of outdoor air in the city of Astana, since subjects of natural monopolies providing regulated heat supply services in the city of the capital make a monthly adjustment of the size of the heat charge in terms of months taking into account the actual temperature of outdoor air during heating.
each participant in the public hearings was given the opportunity to ask an exciting request for the targeted use of consumer funds and get acquainted with the work of enterprises of natural monopolies.
The natural growth of the population of the republic in January-April 2018 compared to January-April 2017 increased by 2.3 thousand people or 3.1% and amounted to 79.5 thousand people.
- Strengthened analysis of citizens' complaints and appeals to the Ministry to identify corruption threats;
consumers of the city of Shymkent raised the issue of installing individual heat meters and a tariff for cold water.
number of home purchase and sale transactions for August
The implementation of the program will give impetus to the development of the ecosystem of business incubators, so that business incubators in the future are at a high level both financially and in terms of competence, and, accordingly, will affect the development of high-quality startups capable of becoming medium and large technology companies.
in the first stages, it may be necessary to create a relatively light urinary system, in the main, while more attention may be paid to a standard microcredit package.
heads of ministries came to support the team.
Eurasia remains a source of stability and development for the multilateral trading system, considering several large economies seeking active independence.
Chairman of the Executive Committee - CIS Executive Secretary with an advisory vote.
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of April 3, 2018.
every Kazakhstani should understand this deeply.
the main task of preliminary control will be to identify the causes and conditions of the illegal order of the subject of control, explain the legal consequences of the violation and convince of the need for law-abiding behavior of the subject under control. the main tasks of preventive control will be to identify the reasons and conditions for unlawful conduct of the control subject , explain the legal consequences of the offense and convince them of the need for law-abiding behavior of the controlled entity . "
because the implementation of one of the basic principles of "keep up" tdm will be ensured only if the tasks and indicators of tdm are properly limited.
Legislative consolidation of the list of information tools, their definition and revision, as well as reduction and optimization of volumes in general.
based on the results of the work, the optimal mechanism for reducing the individual income tax of employees with low wages was determined.
competitions were held in an atmosphere of increased mood.
The Vice Minister expressed confidence that today's interview and exchange of views will be useful for further work and wished everyone fruitful work at this session.
Today, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a solemn meeting dedicated to the celebration of Capital Day.
Participants also share their experiences regarding the harmless and efficient process of accession.
instead of partial inspections, it is planned to introduce a new institute of preventive control.
in order to maintain the proper quality and cost of the services provided, it is required to comply with the conditions for the joint development of the existing infrastructure with other participants in the cellular market.
we must ensure the processing of raw materials and enter world markets with high-quality finished products.
list of documents required for participation in the project:
Agrarian policy should be aimed at radically increasing labor productivity and increasing exports of processed products.
Akims of the regions need to widely involve small and medium-sized businesses, take measures for the disposal and processing of household waste in accordance with modern requirements.
in general, the agreement should become the basis of a progressive movement towards a closer trade and economic partnership with China.
negotiations allow the parties on the text of the agreement to resolve major differences and are expected at the stocktaking stage.
At the end of the second quarter, 31.4 thousand vacancies were announced in organizations with large and medium-sized enterprises.
Since mid-2016, inflation slowdown reflects the effective policy pursued by the National Bank of Kazakhstan, as well as the most favorable external conditions.
connecting borrowers for consumed electricity
in which region of the country tariffs will be reduced will be announced in the near future.
now no one is interested in the scope of the project.
Also in the region there are positive trends in the number of small and medium-sized businesses and the volume of tax deductions from small and medium-sized enterprises.
For the first time, the signed law enshrined the legislative regulation of the issue of compulsory service of individuals and legal entities by subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-public sector.
now there is a dominance of bank loans as a source of business lending.
The right to interrogation is an exceptional opportunity for representatives of each akimat and relevant departments to individually provide additional clarifications on the ground on compliance and actual implementation of regulatory norms of the government reforms aimed at improving the business climate in the country.
The specific objective of the round table is based on:
they are clear and understandable.
Mihai Varga also announced plans to increase from 200 to 250 grants for Kazakh students studying at Hungarian universities.
In BC-2025, financial support tools will be improved.
a real civil society would then be established.
at the same time, in public reception rooms, citizens asked questions that were not within the competence of the antimonopoly department.
The reason for the gross violation is that according to the document, the check was issued for one land plot, in fact, another land plot of the businessman was checked.
the representative of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported in detail to the meeting participants on measures to achieve success on the indicator "connection to the energy supply system."
The Vice Minister once again drew the attention of the heads of the committee and its territorial bodies to the strict execution of the instructions of the head of state that the priority direction in the work should be to improve the well-being of citizens of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, on the initiative of participants in the advertising market and subjects, the issue of placing outdoor (visual) advertising will be further discussed on the second day of public acceptance.
more than half of 51.6% (4.5 million people) are men, 48.4% (4.2 million people) are women.
this should dramatically increase productivity in agriculture and export of processed products.
As a result of the processing of data submitted by migration authorities, in January-June 2018, compared with January-June 2017, the number of registered arrivals for permanent residence in the country decreased by 26.5% and amounted to 6,368 people.
The funds released should be used to introduce a new system of remuneration for civil servants based on a factor-point scale.
In addition, the bill provides for a reduction in the tax burden for Kazakh carriers.
wheat flour bread of grade 1
The akims should actively address issues of improvement of housing and communal infrastructure through public-private partnership.
The head of the albina yerzhanova fund, in turn, forms a competitive environment for talented youth and their mentors from among entrepreneurs.
In addition, the entrepreneur has not been notified of the inspection and has not submitted an act establishing the inspection with appropriate registration with the bodies of legal statistics and special records of the Prosecutor General's Office.
It should be noted that the transaction does not affect the cost of cellular services for end users.
Within the framework of the programme for the development of productive employment and mass entrepreneurship, it is necessary to involve these categories of the population widely and strengthen their tools.
The main goal of the event is the desire to become a practical tool for business, which allows overcoming barriers that divide Russia and other countries both geographically and informationally.
Together with the Economic Investigation Service, a special plan is being implemented to protect entrepreneurs from criminal attacks.
digitalization of the economy generates revenues, but also threatens the release of labor.
for example, the reduction of the average settlement account of a family of 3 living in a 2-room apartment per 60 m2 of air is as follows.
The Vice Minister noted that the fair criticism of the head of state against the committee regarding the lack of control in the field of tariffs for utilities is a result of a significant deterioration in control by the authorized body in this area.
participants of the session paid special attention to the specifics of the external conditions for creating the current high-tech and innovative Eurasian space, digital change of the economy, stimulation of business activity and positive changes in the life of citizens.
in particular, inbound tourism and domestic tourism, which today create every tenth job in the world, are one of the promising sources of income for any region.
The Speaker also noted the active participation of Kazakh women in scientific and innovative activities.
More than 300 people took part in it.
price of imported product receipts *
the position of the Ministry of Agriculture was caused by the need to support domestic agricultural producers, as well as a step towards reducing the country's import dependence.
2nd place - Izbasarova nurgul and baibolat erlan
during the speech, representatives of the parties noted that in the future all necessary efforts will be made for mutually beneficial technical cooperation of states.
This seminar is aimed at introducing the index: representatives of Eidu presented information about the index, explained the data collection process and proposed a methodology for its calculation.
percentage of the corresponding period of the previous year
He said that the issue of creating a single base of domestic producers is currently being considered.
Director of the Department of Enterprise Development of the Ministry of National Economy Aslanbek Zhakupov spoke on improving the business climate in connection with the implementation of legislative initiatives to reduce administrative barriers and reduce business permits.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations performing real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, the city of Almaty and regional centers.
poverty decreased by 13 times, the unemployment rate fell to 4.9%.
first, review the allocation of categories when voting to approve a plan for the rehabilitation of debtor enterprises that cannot be paid by creditors, and also introduce different voting regimes for different categories of creditors;
Carries out a comprehensive study and consideration of draft documents of a socio-economic nature developed by the CIS Executive Committee and sectoral bodies, as well as the harmonization of the positions of states.
as a result, it was decided to lift this restriction and amend existing legislation.
Is it planned to extend the project to small towns?
high-level government officials and representatives of embassies of the Turkic Council member States also arrived.
tariffs for the transport of goods by all modes of transport
they give our children the necessary functional literacy and ability to think critically.
its main advantage is the introduction of new requirements in conditions of maximum effective regulation of business and minimum costs, "said A. Zhakupov.
Recall that the World Economic Forum published the next rating of the global competitiveness index.
these conditions are mandatory for fulfillment by Kazakhtelecom when concluding a deal with a white party.
Consideration should be given to introducing new standards and model public construction projects to provide quality housing.
At the end of the meeting, representatives were able to ask questions and get specific answers to them.
do not overestimate.
Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Ministry of National Economy Aslanbek Zhakupov drew attention to the 3-year results of the implementation of the entrepreneurial code, which today is the main legislative document regulating business activities.
Heads of structural divisions of the Ministry of National Economy were given appropriate instructions on the results of the reception of citizens.
what is being done along the way
in this regard, it is necessary to accelerate the adoption of a law aimed at further reducing participation in business regulation.
Together with the World Bank, we need to independently evaluate the implementation of reforms that have been practically carried out in each region and city of the country at the local level, "said the Vice Minister.
in accordance with the legislation on natural monopolies, the subject of the natural monopoly in the manner determined by the authorized body, in case it is impossible to determine the location of the consumer directly to the consumers of the funds received from recalculating the cost of heat supply services, taking into account the actual temperature of the outside air, reducing the tariff (price, fee rate) when paying for heat supply services.
in the regional context, the highest wage was set in Atyrau region - 291.3 thousand tenge, which is almost 1.8 times higher than the average republican indicator.
if it is impossible to find a job on your own, contact the akimats of the regions.
According to aslanbek zhakupov, the main goal of introducing an entrepreneurial code is to systematize "functional" laws governing entrepreneurial activity in general.
Round tables provide an opportunity to explore dialogue and exchange of experiences and best practices on issues related to WTO accession and WTO membership, and how WTO accession will strengthen the multilateral trading system.
At the end of the round table, participants discussed a number of issues related to the quality of the implementation of functions in the redistribution of functions to the appropriate level of public administration.
to fight cancer, it is necessary to adopt a comprehensive plan and create a scientific cancer center.
in education involving citizens of all ages, it is necessary to accelerate the establishment of our advanced system.
The purpose of this event was to exchange experience and discuss in the field of public service.
In this regard, expert experts presented an assessment of the level of wage distribution based on the structure of tax revenues by individual income tax, the distribution of the level of remuneration of Kazakhstani employees, the Lorentz curve.
in the near future, regional and republican media published photos of alcoholic beverages in their accounts.
stimulating the real sector of demand for new technologies and the private venture finance market are key factors in the innovation ecosystem.
Holding reporting meetings of the Minister of the Interior, the management of the territorial administration and district police inspectors before the population.
After listening to the appeals of citizens, Madi takiyev and Asan Darbaev gave explanations and detailed answers to all the questions received within the competence of the ministry, including the antimonopoly department.
51.7% born (201,756) were men and 48.3% (188,506) girls.
labour force transfer coefficient - is characterized by the ratio of the number of accepted workers to the number of released workers, that is, the replacement of released workers with newly accepted personnel.
tariffs for the transport of goods by all modes of transport
The Minister stressed that the guidelines for achieving the goals are proposals and standards for eidu aimed at creating a sustainable business environment and improving business competitiveness.
changing prices of consumer goods and services
The document was signed on Friday as part of the XV forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation in Petropavlovsk.
Existing legislation on consumer protection should create favourable conditions for the development of public consumer associations. the legal norms in the legislation on consumer protection should create favorable conditions for the development of public associations of consumers .
An expert of the Center for Modernization Studies and Integration Processes of the Institute of Eurasian Integration spoke about the peculiarities of the upcoming event, as well as its significance for Kazakhstan in primeminister.kz-ке interview.
young leaders create jobs for more than 1,000 socially vulnerable segments of the population per year.
Since January 1, 2018, the introduction of an independent budget of local self-government and communal property in cities of regional significance, villages and rural districts, where more than 2 thousand people live, has been legally established.
To increase competition between educational institutions and attract private capital, per capita funding will be introduced in city schools.
The minimum consumer basket is the minimum set of food, goods and services necessary for human life support, in physical and solar terms.
Appropriate legislative changes, including those governing natural monopolies.
the company also established work on tax collection, mobile payment management system, paid parking.
The Ministry is also working to reduce business costs in a massive manner.
gin is the final result of the production activities of resident producers at market prices.
significant carbon monoxide emissions also decreased from 841.3 thousand tons to 491.9 thousand tons or 1.7 times, and sulfur dioxide - from 1,483.5 thousand tons to 786.4 thousand tons or 1.9 times, respectively.
Note that the recalculation return is reflected in the personal accounts of the population in a separate line as an advance (balance) in the heating period or in the calendar year.
- Activities to increase anti-corruption intolerance are regularly carried out in conjunction with anti-corruption bodies.
in this regard, all Kazakhstanis need to attach great importance to the legalization of their activities.
in general, experts say, the implementation of the initiative, while respecting the principle of social justice, will contribute to increasing the level of tax culture.
Today, a quarter of the world's electricity is generated from renewable energy sources.
tariffs for communication services to legal entities
these three basic directions are three system platforms of modernization of Kazakhstan.
As a result of the investigation, an administrative case was opened against Kcell JSC, the materials were sent to the court for consideration.
The purpose of creating this working group is to develop proposals aimed at ensuring the functioning of the single market of services within the EAEU for the member countries of the EAEU and the Eurasian Economic Commission.
On the first day of the forum, representatives of the public noted the possibility of providing a simplified system of GPS to the countries of Central Asia, which will allow duty-free entry of more than 800 goods from 4.
the previous limit is measured from 0 to 100, where 0 is the worst result and 100 is the limit.
In the state administration, it is necessary to continue work related to reducing the costs of entrepreneurs and the population.
- 28.0), in city centers - 28.7 (2007
As a result of the workshop, the representative of the agency gave a satisfactory assessment and made recommendations for continuation of work.
that is, the transition from a policy of power to a policy of partnership and cooperation.
An agreed policy for the employment of the liberation labour force.
It should be noted that the remaining members of the EAEU do not have a simplified trade regime with Serbia.
Timur Suleimen reported that the growth was due to an increase in the construction of residential buildings, industrial facilities, the reconstruction of roads and the modernization of the Shymkent base.
Zhumabekov was the executive secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in this regard, the abolition of this benefit will create equal conditions between market participants of all manufacturers of confectionery products and soft drinks.
Aisulu Suverdievna, Head of the Department of Ethics Monitoring, Department of Human Resources Management, took 2nd place by age 25-31 years.
The deputy head of the Baurzhan Kairbek department addressed the audience with a detailed statement on reduced utility tariffs and changes in bills.
The members of the Council expressed confidence that the measures taken would give new impetus to the villages and contribute to their better living conditions, which would ultimately have a positive impact on the economy as a whole.
however, only 5 of them received benefits within the fairy and as owners of a free warehouse.
v. Vice Minister Ruslan Engsebayev, speaking on the indicator "international trade," reported on the issue of submitting a customs declaration and VAT administration through customs paperwork, digitization of customs and tax administration, as well as the use of blockchain technology in the capital-1 information system through the Single Window portal.
The Ministry is currently working to align existing strategic and policy documents with strategic plan priorities.
After the speech, the Dalen channel answered questions from the citizens present, as well as residents of the region who contacted the department's e-mail.
As part of the implementation of the provisions of this law, according to the Vice Minister, a draft decree will be submitted to the government's office, which will approve a list of regulatory legal acts.
tenge/s nds
macroeconomic stability is also a priority for the Ministry last year.
here we are making significant efforts to maximize the potential of public associations. "
the agreement is aimed at creating conditions for improving mutual trade between the EAEU member states and China, but does not provide for the abolition of duties or the automatic reduction of neutral barriers.
During the meeting of the management committee to improve the skills of senior and middle managers and establish business contacts with foreign partners, the parties noted the effective activities of the department to develop and strengthen bilateral economic relations.
According to Darbaev, the main area of ​ ​ work in the near future will be the institutional strengthening of public organizations for the protection of consumer rights, conducting an examination of the quality and safety of goods and services.
thus, the main direction of the law is the introduction of preliminary control aimed at changing the mentality of a public servant in the exercise of control and supervision functions.
the consumer price index, which characterizes inflation, reflects the change in the prices of goods and services purchased by the population for their own consumption.
Vice Minister of Madina Zhunusbekova spoke from the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
selection of business incubators is carried out on a competitive basis by a commission consisting of representatives of interested state bodies and organizations, external independent experts.
The participants of the forum also adopted a charter calling for the understanding that the performance of public service is a special trust on the part of society and the state and places high demands on the morality, ethics and moral image of public servants, as well as all public servants who carry out their activities at a high professional level and make a worthy contribution to the development of the country.
the consumer price index, which characterizes inflation, reflects the change in the prices of goods and services purchased by the population for their own consumption.
Considering the active participation of the akims and the nature of the voiced issues, it is necessary to note the increase in the level of competence of the akims of rural districts.
the positive conclusion of this project is reflected in the message of the regions on the adoption of experience.
we must become a united nation at the origins of the historic rise in the fourth industrial revolution.
Currently, the list of organizations subject to privatization at the suggestion of the state commission is updated by issuing five state property organizations and one object of the Baiterek holding.
in his speech n. Aydapkelov noted that today, in Kazakhstan, we see that in relation to environmental issues there is very little coverage, and in the near future it should have a very high priority among the priority measures.
export price of products *
The purpose of the round table is to discuss topical issues on the implementation of the entrepreneurial code, solving gaps and contradictions, as well as identifying further steps to improve entrepreneurial legislation.
The First Deputy Prime Minister noted that the Dalen channel has sufficient experience in the financial and economic sphere.
The Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Legal Statistics and Special Accounts of the Prosecutor General's Office emphasized the prevention of the human factor and the strengthening of the role of information systems in the control and supervision activities of state bodies carried out through the project.
It should be noted that the main part of the seminar consists of practical tasks on identifying problems and regulatory goals, the most optimal regulatory alternative choice, calculating profits and costs, as well as defining control indicators, etc.
The first day of the forum was devoted to the new situation in the retailer's market with fluctuations in the exchange rate and its impact on the prices of domestic producers.
the consumer price index, which characterizes inflation, reflects the change in the prices of goods and services purchased by the population for their own consumption.
the reasons for instability include those released due to violation of labor discipline and of their own free will.
implementation of all these measures contributed to improving the indicators assigned to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and improving the competitiveness rating of Kazakhstan as a whole.
about half of employees (47.9%) get to jobs by public transport, 21.2% - by foot, 21.1% - by personal transport.
study duration 1.5 years.
According to the results of the project, the budget regulation industry in Kazakhstan will be evaluated by taking into account eidu positions through proposals on applying the best international experience in the field of budget management.
if these amendments are applied in practice, this will eliminate direct interaction of the consumer with the state architectural and construction control bodies and accordingly reduce the number of procedures when connecting to the power supply system.
During the solemn meeting, the Minister noted the special role of women in raising the younger generation and building a healthy and educated society.
smart technologies are an opportunity for the dynamic development of the agro-industrial complex.
Also, press tours and public hearings were held with the participation of consumers and representatives of the garden in order to clearly understand the clear implementation of investment programs and the development of the repair fund allocated to the enterprise, as well as the implementation of measures for the development of the repair fund and the implementation of the investment program.
the Turkmen side chaired the meeting.
experts noted that the implementation of this initiative will bring Kazakhstan closer to world standards for providing high-quality housing.
in addition, it is proposed to legislate public monitoring of the implementation of functions redistributed between levels of government.
National company "Astana expo-2017" under the leadership of the Chairman of the Board and the Commissioner for Ethics of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.razugulova.
Within the framework of the Plan of the Nation, we are carrying out reforms one hundred concrete steps.
Siyyarto noted that Hungary is interested in establishing a visa-free regime in the zone of stay of citizens of Kazakhstan.
The adoption of the law will also improve the conditions for the legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity and reduce the administrative burden on them and the costs of entrepreneurs.
According to the reliability indicator of the police, targeted measures are being implemented to strengthen the fight against crime and ensure public safety in the country.
Review the ways in which teachers are trained and trained.
The parties also exchanged additional explanations on certain aspects of legislative regulation in other areas within the scope of the draft agreement, such as electronic commerce, competition, ecology.
In addition, Timur Suleimenov recalled that a number of regulatory and legislative measures are being taken at the level of the central state body.
it is time to consider education as a separate branch of the economy with its investment projects and export potential.
The main part of the conference was a panel discussion devoted to the consideration of the most pressing issues of the activities and development of mental centers in Kazakhstan.
regional policy in the country is aimed at improving the competitiveness and quality of life of the population regardless of place of residence, Dalenov said.
protection and promotion of the reproductive health of young people.
at the end of the word n. Aydapkelov thanked the representatives of the Green Academy Scientific and Educational Center for the joint seminar and wished all participants success in achieving sustainable development goals.
the application is sent to a special commission, which reviews the documents and makes a decision.
the document was submitted to the Senate of Parliament for further consideration.
This year, the rating has replenished.
According to him, the system has reached record rates of profitability in Europe and does not give any additional loads on the shoulders of Hungarian citizens.
prices of food products for nine months of the current year (2018).
Project implementation dates are not specified.
Following the results of the seminar, the participants were awarded certificates.
On the first working day of the public reception, more than 50 representatives of small and medium-sized businesses in Almaty were able to ask their questions.
appeals are mainly related to entrepreneurship issues.
On May 17 this year in the city of Nur-Sultan with the participation of experts of the World Bank, Kazakh experts in the field of entrepreneurship development, government bodies and the business community the presentation of reforms carried out in the country to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship development took place.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations conducting real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, cities of Almaty, Shymkent and regional centers.
In turn, the head of the country called on Hungarian high-tech and agricultural companies to invest in Kazakhstan, which has free access to the eurozone market and borders with China.
A. Zhakupov noted that now the purpose of control is not to punish the entrepreneur, but to help and consult.
Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Ministry of National Economy Aslanbek Dzhakupov and Deputy Chairman of the Almaty branch of the Nұr Otan party Arman Halbekov made a welcoming speech.
then the president instructed to familiarize himself with the utility tariff in detail and punish the monopolists who illegally raised it.
the bill also provides for the legislative consolidation of the list of information tools, their definition and revision, as well as the reduction of the number and, in general, optimization.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 0.5%.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 0.7%.
the difference between the maximum salary of heads of organizations in the regions of the republic and its minimum value was 3.7 times.
the second direction - the regulation of information tools - provides for the legislative approval of the list of information tools at the level of the presidential order.
The objective of the event is to establish a dialogue on new WTO rules on investment promotion, such as improving transparency and sustainability of investment measures, simplifying and accelerating administrative procedures and requirements.
therefore, the agreement signed today will serve as an impetus for the commercialization of socially oriented projects.
During the round table, a constructive discussion took place, during which each panellist was given the opportunity to express his/her views on the status of business code practice.
according to the ministry, the growth is due to an increase in livestock production by 3.6%, crop production - by 8.1%.
the tax code replenishes revenues by simplifying special conditions and advantages, reducing imbalances, increasing the tax base and contributing to the consolidation of the treasury.
This year, the world forum brought together more than 160 organizations in more than 100 cities around the world, which simultaneously organize various events of intellectual centers dedicated to an important topic.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations conducting real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, cities of Almaty, Shymkent and regional centers.
Further consideration was given to the non-application by service providers of protective rules relating to quantitative and discriminatory restrictions on the employment of workers and increased efforts to remove obstacles to the implementation of rules of operation in the foreign exchange and financial markets.
producer prices for agricultural products
At the same time, as Minister Suleimenov noted, the institution of preliminary control is the first step towards changing the mentality of a modern public servant.
- Strengthening the activities of the Ministry of Anti-Corruption Examination of Draft Laws with the involvement of numerous examinations and public organizations;
issues requiring additional time are taken under the personal control of the minister.
The main feature of the IP budget is the mandatory participation of citizens in budget processes and the management of communal property. the main peculiarity of the lsg budget is the obligatory participation of citizens in the management of the budgetary process and municipal ownership of lsgs .
on the basis of constitutional law, the freedom of citizens is fully guaranteed, their rights are preserved.
so, according to the results of control, the entrepreneur will be given a reservation on the elimination of violations, and earlier he was immediately brought to administrative or other responsibility.
it is necessary to monitor the movement of goods online, ensure the large-scale introduction of digital technologies, such as blockchain, for their unhindered transportation and in order to facilitate customs operations.
in this regard, the entrepreneur has a logical question: why pay a license fee for these products if in fact the disposal of this goods is impossible?
however, it is worth noting that a number of issues are being further explored through regulatory public authorities and relevant local executive bodies.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 1.5%.
in addition, in his speech, the representative of the Ministry noted the need to create many programs and projects to involve women in the technological sphere, remove obstacles and increase incentives for access to knowledge in the dog industry.
all questions were answered comprehensively, while the authorized body took control of questions requiring further study.
It is necessary to implement a pilot project on digitalization of several industrial enterprises of the country and widely disseminate this experience.
in order to stimulate revenue exploration, it is planned to eliminate the bonus of commercial detection, and an equivalent subsoil use tax is paid for the offshore and deep-sea oil fields.
the best experience based on the results of the subnational rating is used in other regions of Kazakhstan.
it should also be noted that the provision of assistance to citizens in solving housing and communal problems is one of the most difficult and important parts of the public reception departments, the problems that people treat are almost all similar and all related to topical issues of changing tariffs for housing and communal services.
for example, one of the policies for implementing the strategy is the "high quality of life policy."
prices of food products for ten months of the current year (2018).
Kazakhstan's rating is held by significant treasury funds in the form of government loans of a very small level, providing a buffer for responding to the risks associated with economic shocks and contingent liabilities, high-speed availability of borrowings, foreign currency assets.
tariffs should be reduced, for most, a temporary compensation tariff is introduced.
In his speech to the seminar participants, the Vice Minister of Yermek Alpysov noted that "the seminar provides an opportunity to discuss topical issues of improving regional policy and share its strategy.
in addition, the agreement forms permanent terms and rules of trade with Iran.
improving the business climate requires decisive action, especially at the regional level.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations conducting real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, cities of Almaty, Shymkent and regional centers.
modern solutions will make it possible to organize the interconnection of all generations of logistics.
in accordance with the agreement, the parties approved guarantees and rights for compliance with the regime of mutual trade in goods at the world level.
the team of specialists not only assists in the continuation of the bridge between business and local authorities.
In the third quarter of 2018, 8.7 million people or 67.0% of the population aged 15 years and older were employed in various sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan.
Hidden Unemployment Rate - Percentage of the labour force of part-time (part-time) workers on negligent leave.
In addition, standards have been established for conducting inspections, including the procedure for conducting preliminary control and supervision, and the procedure for recording the results of inspections.
Kazakhstan simplified the enforcement of contracts by making court decisions made available at all levels in commercial cases and by publishing a report on the evaluation of the effectiveness of local commercial courts.
Within the framework of the event to develop proposals aimed at solving issues related to measures of neutral regulation of trade between partners, representatives of the Ministry presented proposals on the application of measures of neutral regulation in Kazakhstan.
To work with artificial intelligence and big data in higher education, it is necessary to increase the number of graduates who have received information technology education.
The meeting was attended by members of the advisory committee representing the EAEU member states, heads and experts of authorized state bodies responsible for tax policy of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
they should not only graduate, but also train specialists who actually work in the agricultural complex or are engaged in science.
Expansion of the privatization plan by reducing the number of organizations subordinate to public authorities.
Issues of interaction and information exchange between the tax authorities of the EAEU member states were also discussed, including amendments to the protocol on the exchange of information in electronic form between the tax authorities of the EAEU member states on the paid amounts of indirect taxes.
at the same time, questions requiring additional research were taken into account.
Over the years, the Government of Kazakhstan has made great efforts to improve the education system, which is one of the sectors receiving the most public funding.
as a result, the rights of the entrepreneur were protected through the ministry and the assigned burdens were abolished.
The antimonopoly body of the Republic of Kazakhstan has completed an investigation against Kcell JSC in connection with abuse of dominant position.
at the same time in crop production there is a decrease of up to 1.6%.
development and testing of new tools aimed at modernization and digitalization of our enterprises, providing for export of products.
these measures allowed Kazakhstan to take 35th place in the World Bank ranking "ease of doing business."
Based on international best practices, early diagnosis and treatment of cancer should be highly effective.
however, for some reason, domestic entrepreneurs do not have the interest and opportunities to cooperate with local producers.
A round table was held to explain the main positions taken into account in the drafting of the bill, as well as the list of redistributed functions between levels of government.
January-May 2018 for January-May 2017
The Kazakh side was presented with the general policy and strategy of gender budgeting within the competence of the Austrian state bodies, the process of integrating gender perspectives into the national planning system, and the system of gender impact assessment.
The parties expressed their intention to jointly develop and implement the Kazakhstan-Russia cross-border cooperation program for 2020-2025.
to implement these and other measures, it is necessary to develop a new version of the Code "On the Health of the People and the Health System."
it takes into account the main indicators of the acceptability of business conditions.
to the rating countries pay attention to the identified shortcomings, and to investors - to which country. construction efficiency.
the best experience based on the results of the subnational rating will be used in other regions of Kazakhstan.
structural changes mainly occurred due to a significant, approximately 3.5-fold reduction in CB (solid) emissions.
As a condition for kcell ak independent entrepreneurial activity, private management of independent management is provided, that is, the shareholder cannot determine the conduct of kcell JSC entrepreneurial activity with new management.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 0.2%.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 0.3%.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 3.8%.
the rest are mainly long-term and are implemented systematically.
For 5 months of this year 87 unscheduled inspections of subjects of natural monopoly and protection of land resources were carried out.	87 unscheduled inspections were conducted in respect of the subjects of natural monopolies and the protection of land resources .	0,75
The purpose of the event is to increase the awareness of legal entities and individuals, individual entrepreneurs, non-profit and public organizations of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) about the legal basis for protecting competition in the common market of the EAEU.	the purpose of the event was to increase the awareness of legal entities and individuals , individual entrepreneurs , non-commercial and public organizations of the eea member states about the legal framework for the protection of competition in the common market of the eaec .	0,75
In addition, during important events, the names of children were noted in Kazakhstan:	also during the significant events in kazakhstan , the children were called by the names :	0,75
audit and accounting of the Kazakh Academy of Public Administration, "d. Graduated from Kunaev Humanities University with a degree in jurisprudence, an international business university with a master's degree in business administration.
food prices for eleven months of the current year (2018).
different price changes are noted in the group of cereals.
Regarding the expansion of cross-border cooperation, the head of the economic department of Kazakhstan proposed to consider the possibility of using this positive experience on the Kazakh-Uzbek border, citing as an example the construction of shikho "khorgos" and "khorgos-east gates" on the Kazakh-Chinese border.
The Hungarian side also supported the proposal to develop mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of creating joint seed farms in Kazakhstan.
Urazgulov Akylbek Sarbaevich, Commissioner for Ethics of the Ministry of National Economy, Deputy Director of the Department of Control in the Public Service of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption Nauryzbek Madina Dulatovna also took part in the seminar-meeting.
Now the purpose of control is not to punish the entrepreneur, but to help and advise without violating the requirements of the law.
This is another platform to support this process through the exchange of experience, knowledge and information.
for example, in order to reduce business transaction costs and continue the reform of eliminating the requirement of the press, it is proposed to prohibit state bodies and financial organizations from requiring printing in a document of a private enterprise entity.
Thus, he considered a study of the steam branch on trade regulation and procedural barriers in Armenia and Moldova.
On the one hand, we are ready to support such business ideas, attract young people who, on the other hand, are able to think differently and make decisive decisions, "said Damir Egizbaev, communications director of the Kazakhstan Center for Public-Private Partnership, commenting on the signing of the memorandum.
Kyzylorda region showed the best results in terms of the growth rate of external investments in the fixed assets of non-resource sector enterprises, the number of graduates of technical and vocational education organizations, and the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises.
he also introduced foreign investors to existing tariffs and stimulus measures.
The sporting event was actively attended by party members of the central apparatus of the ministry, primary party organizations of committees and subordinate organizations.
Institute of Preventive Control.
the next meeting of the working group on atomic energy is being held in Astana.
subsidies for production projects in the agro-industrial complex will be carried out through existing mechanisms, that is, through local executive bodies within the framework of the anka state program.
since most of the indicators belong to this factor, for all of them there was a decrease.
Within the framework of astana finance days, the 11th meeting of the working group on economic cooperation of the Turkic-speaking Cooperation Council was held in the city of Nur-Sultan.
in particular, citizens should see how their appeals are considered and receive timely high-quality answers.
the main tasks of the committee are:
in addition, listing on the exchange significantly strengthens the reputation of the company and the confidence of borrowers and the business community.
the Minister said that the Government was taking a number of effective measures to eliminate the gap in certain areas of competitiveness.
According to the results of the vote, by unanimous decision, the executive secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan was elected chairman of the primary party organization of Zhumabek Zhumabek, deputy chairman - grazgulov akylbek sarbaevich.
During the dialogue, the speaker noted the relevance and importance of this area from the point of view of the state's digitalization policy.
Director of the Department of Enterprise Development Aslanbek Zhakupov reported on the main aspects of the reforms carried out in the system of state control and supervision.
He also noted that the creation of partnerships between this business and the state authority will create the basis for competitive and cost-effective entrepreneurship in our country.
who can take part in the project?
in addition, Director of the Department of Analysis and Assessment of Regions a. Baitnkenova presented and discussed with representatives of the regions approaches to improving the territory development program.
In order to develop proposals within the framework of the event, representatives of the ministry presented new strategies for the regional development of Kazakhstan.
In the course of his speech, A. Orazgulov drew the attention of civil servants to the ongoing work to improve the image of the civil servant of the Republic of Kazakhstan and warned about the need to comply with the code of ethics of public servants in official and free time.
real improvement of the financial sector and borrowing enterprises to improve the financial system; effective policies against complex inflation; measures will be taken to ensure the real availability of long-term tenge loans, "he said.
the forecast chart focuses on the development of growth points based on managed urbanization.
it is necessary to maximize the potential of the efficiency of public service in the regions by increasing their economic independence and responsibility.
universities should actively implement joint projects with leading foreign universities, scientific centers, large enterprises and transnational corporations.
In the field of law enforcement, new technological tools are being introduced - video surveillance systems, photo-video recording of road offenses, benitizers and other innovative technologies.
the percentage of registered unemployed was 1.6 per cent of the labour force.
how to take part in the project?
Other work and costs
for the implementation of the program, the parties intend to develop an appropriate agreement.
During the seminar, experts reviewed the fundamentals of electronic commerce, including its possible contribution to trade through electronic commerce, as well as its scope and speed.
according to experts, the introduction of a progressive scale will require detailed study.
Kazakhstanis become a single nation.
Therefore, the law reduced the period for conducting inspections in a special order from 30 to 15 working days, and unscheduled inspections from 30 to 10 working days.
according to the second initiative, it is proposed to reduce the rate of individual income tax by 10 times for employees with a salary below 25 monthly calculation indicators or 60,125 (sixty thousand one hundred and twenty-five) tenge.
thus, based on unscheduled inspections, the committee and its territorial units will take response measures.
Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Ministry of National Economy Aslanbek Zhakupov and a representative of the business community, Vice President of the Association of Entrepreneurs of the Karaganda Region Gulnara Kurbanbaev acted as a speaker.
these public reception rooms work together with branches of the Nur Otan, Atameken party, subjects of natural monopolies and a socially significant market.
In December 2017, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 18,902 and decreased by 7.9% compared to the previous month.
The use of the eaeo platform will increase access to the markets of third countries through mutually beneficial trade agreements.
industrial services
we must show our attractiveness, both financial and commercial.
measures taken by the state body ensure the protection of the rights and interests of entrepreneurs in the interaction of subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere, as well as business participation in the regulation of entrepreneurial activities and the protection of their interests.
the main task of the consultant is to analyze the corruption threat in the work of the unit;
it uses international best practices, English and modern. a regional hub that uses technology.
Updating technical and vocational education programmes with the involvement of employers and taking into account international requirements and digital skills.
consumer price index1)
date and place of the reporting meeting.
The theme of the seventh round table "Eurasian view of the future of the multilateral trading system: rules for accession to the WTO and peace" was outlined in order to assess the current situation and prospects in the region.
The Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan chaired by the Director of the Department of Development of Large Business of Kazakhstan Aslanbek Dzhakupov held a regular meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship.
On October 25-26 of the current year, with the presentation of the united nations development program and the support of the Governor's Office of Kostanay, the historical event was initiated by the Department of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in the Kostanay Region, as well as with the participation of members of ethics councils and ethics commissioners "Ethical standards of conduct in the public service: experience and achievements."
At the end of last year, an updated action plan was adopted to improve def indicators for 2018-2019.
The forum allowed participants to get acquainted with investment opportunities and successful experience of Kazakhstan in the field of attracting investments.
The objective of the regulatory impact analysis is to model the proposed regulation in a qualitative and effective manner to meet the needs of business, the State and society as a whole.	in addition , in relation to business , the ministry of health in analytical forms of regulatory impact analysis does not provide data on cost calculations in case of dismantling such rooms ,  a. dzhakupov noted .
The study examined the experience of managing and managing risks for South Korean business projects, and made recommendations on this issue by Korean researchers.
2861 employees of akims of rural districts were trained, including 916 akims of rural districts.
The following laws have been passed:
the main purpose of the measures taken is to change the vector of state power.
however, in recent years, 7 thousand terms have been translated into Kazakh in the world.
forum participants had the opportunity not only to withdraw the most important information about the latest legislative changes affecting the interests of business, but also to ask their questions to each of the speakers.
As M. Zhunusbekova noted, the main advantage of the seminar on the agenda is its adaptation to the national essence of the country's development.
in some regions of Kazakhstan, tariff reductions occurred last year.
as a percentage of the corresponding month of the year, growth
also, according to experts, the expressed flexibility of the exchange rate and an increase in confidence in monetary policy mitigate external volatility caused by increased global risks.
issues of the development of agrarian science.
do not apply fines and penalties if the taxpayer acted in accordance with the explanation of the tax authority and as a result the position has changed. it is suggested not to apply fines and penalties if the taxpayer acted in accordance with the explanation of the tax authority , and on which the position subsequently changed .
as part of the seminar, a qualified expert in the field of reforms, a lecturer of the seminar raa (regulatory impact analysis) a certified specialist with. Pisikov introduced the seminar participants to the legal foundations of development in Kazakhstan, as well as presented presentation materials on the topics of determining the topic of regulatory issues and goals, forming regulatory options, analytical market security, assessing the expected consequences of the use of alternatives, etc.
In 2017-2018. change in prices in construction
increase in percentage to the corresponding month of the previous year
a. Urazgulov - "Our ministry pays special attention to the prevention of corruption offenses.
gin name entity and structure
name value and personality structure
During meetings, a. Urazgulov discussed norms on issues of public service, anti-corruption and ethical codes, the team held a conversation about the moral and psychological climate.
At the end of the solemn meeting, employees were awarded with a significant contribution to the economic development of the country, impeccable and impeccable work in the civil service, a high professional result.
At the end of the meeting, the ministers of the two countries exchanged views on other relevant issues of cooperation and convinced each other to provide comprehensive assistance in exchanging positive experiences on removing barriers to mutual trade and increasing its volumes.
In total, about 150 representatives of local executive bodies, maslikhats, regional chambers of entrepreneurship took part in the training seminar.
The third initiative is to increase the number of grants to improve the accessibility and quality of higher education, including the results of training in technical specialties, contribute to an increase in the number of personnel in the workplace, especially engineering and technical workers, and to reduce unemployment among young people.
The total area of ​ ​ residential buildings commissioned in the republic since independence is 134,622 thousand square meters. of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In her speech M. Zhunisbekova noted that increasing regional competitiveness will have a positive impact on stimulation of various sectors of the economy, both in regions and in states.
The purpose of the above seminar is to study the provisions and procedures governing the settlement of disputes, Kazakhstan's participation in court disputes, as well as practical experience in the settlement of trade disputes in the organization.
The main directions of the project are:
The head of state has repeatedly emphasized the basic qualities that a public servant must possess for the effective management of the country.
The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan carries out reforms in two areas: "taxation" and "resolution of insolvency," estimated in the rating "doing business."
all necessary programs.
every seventh child is born annually in Turkestan region.
at the same time, analysis of permitting procedures, consideration of requirements for business entities within the framework of state control, as well as the use of information tools revealed a number of issues and problems of a systemic nature that require refinement, amendments and additions to the current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the same time, the growth of the manufacturing industry is 3.6%.
According to the participants of the event, according to the assessment of leading international organizations, Kazakhstan will advance through reforms that improve the business climate in the country, which help attract both domestic and external investments.
in this regard, the assistant prosecutor of the Altai region explained in detail the procedure for imposing an administrative fine and all necessary measures for the administrative production of the apparatus of the akim of the rural district.
the round table held in the capital, the heart of Eurasia, provides a timely context for the exchange of views on the future multilateral trading system in terms of accession to the WTO and its systemic share.
Having deep knowledge and special potential, you achieve excellent success in your professional work. with deep knowledge and special potential , you achieve significant success in professional activities .
this is what I say that then we can encounter gaps in quality issues, can affect standing, on the production industry.
flat silk, million tons
As a result of the processing of information submitted by the migration service authorities, the number of registered persons who arrived in the country for permanent residence in January-February 2018 decreased by 17% compared to January-February 2017 and amounted to 2580 people.
as a percentage of the corresponding month of the year, growth
participants noted that they stepped up and went very interesting and cognitive.
Following the results of the competition, the jury determined the following prizes:
Thus, entrepreneurs in these areas asked a number of questions about complex and problematic issues related to land legal relations, in the field of carrying out the control and supervisory functions of state bodies, etc.
Timur Suleimen emphasized the great possibilities of transit potential of Kazakhstan.
today, white "fortebank," white "cesnabank" and white "people's bank," as well as white insurance company "state annuity company" are connected to composite activities.
In conclusion, the Vice Minister thanked the participants of the event for their interest and called for active cooperation to further improve the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
A regular meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship was held at the site of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan under the chairmanship of the Director of the Department of Development of Large Business of Kazakhstan Aslanbek Dzhakupov.
The authorized representative of Kazakhstan for the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs Bulat Abylkasymovich palymbetov explained to the participants about the main functions performed by the business ombudsman, the main of which is to prevent illegal prosecution by state bodies, and also noted the positive course of the government in the development of entrepreneurship in general.
by videoconference, the regions also witnessed this meeting.
- Strengthened relations with civil society institutions to combat corruption;
The recommendations of the experts were taken into account during the seminar, taking into account the importance of ensuring environmental stability for our country.
the parties exchanged views on the settlement of the above issues, reached an understanding on the ways to conduct negotiations and outlined the tasks in the next stage.
During the round table, participants asked a number of questions on the redistribution of powers between levels of government.
Kazakhstan retained the first place in its indicator "protection of minority investors" and according to the results of the rating came forward on the following indicators:
In 1989-1993 - Deputy General Director of the National Bank of Wall Materials.
Kazakhstan has developed a successful market economy model.
this forecast allows us to expect in the short term that there are no risks to the deterioration of Kazakhstan's credit rating.
if earlier a citizen first registered a legal entity, and then only provided the bank with a registration certificate for opening an account, and also had to contact the insurance company to conclude a compulsory insurance contract, now thanks to the new composite activity, citizens within two working days (not including the date of submission of the application) receive a certificate of state registration of a legal entity, a bank account number and a signed contract of compulsory accident insurance of the employee.
Develop a new model of guaranteed free medical care with a clear definition of the State's objectives.
Among the citizens who appealed to the minister are residents of the city of Nur-Sultan, Kostanay region, Almaty and Shymkent, and among those who contacted by videoconferencing are residents of Kostanay and Almaty regions.
each consumer received a detailed answer to all his questions of concern.
In this regard, the competent and statistical authorities are recommended to create and send to the commission information on satirical data on the service provider in sectors of the economy operating in a single market format, "said a member of the board.
I am sure that we will achieve all the goals on the way to a bright future of Kazakhstan!
Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan met with Zhumangarin and Deputy Prime Minister during the briefing in the press center of the Government of Kazakhstan today. Vice Minister reported on the progress of privatization within the eighth direction of "effective public administration" of the strong sholpankulov message.
This year, it is planned to transfer public services to electronic format, as well as reduce the number of documents and the timing of services.
Following the meeting, the timur of the Suleimen noted the need to improve the quality of the work carried out on the system of regulation of tariff formation, control and supervision, and analysis of the activities of natural monopolies in the housing and communal services sector.
the emergence of several strategic long-term investors outside the bank, in my opinion, is a tool for the functioning of the market.
computer literacy is one of the most important factors affecting the competitiveness of the population and enabling them to acquire new skills in accordance with the requirements of the labor market.
The event was attended by Vice Minister S. Zhumangarin, as well as Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights. Bazylov.
fixed deduction mode.
In addition, during the seminar with representatives of the population of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the issues of forming a plan for the revision of regulatory instruments of the state body, as well as the formation of reports of local executive bodies of the region, the city of republican significance and the capital, which carry out management in the field of entrepreneurship, the state of work under the program were explained.
Clusters for the production of building materials have been created on the basis of special economic zones.
according to the project, there is a dynamics of growth in the number of specialists who arrived for living and working in the village.
the businessman is given a certain time to eliminate the identified violations, and if it is eliminated, the state body is now given the right to repeat, that is, unscheduled verification.
people involved in this business are primarily interested in low investment costs and high returns.
Kazakhstan's rating is supported by significant state funds in the form of an asset in foreign currency, the ability to attract very high cash borrowings, low levels of government debt in foreign currency, which are a buffer for possible risks and a response to possible economic shocks.
in addition, at present there is a weak work of the akims of rural districts to identify and prosecute administrative offenses.
At the working group meeting, the current situation on the functioning of the single market for services was discussed, the issue of administrative cooperation between regulators of member states was considered, and a number of topical issues impeding the implementation of single market rules in certain areas of services were studied.
part of these documents was submitted to the Council of Heads of Government of the CIS.
wages are growing dynamically.
Private sector participation in co-financing should be a prerequisite for all applied research and development.
What are the advantages of the project?
What are the obligations of the project participant?
gin name entity and structure
name value and personality structure
constitutional reform clarified the balance between the branches of government.
Institutional change in judicial and law enforcement systems.
the CIS Economic Council has a permanent economic commission.
Kazakhstan is represented by the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
self-employed and unemployed are a reserve for economic growth.
prices of food products for seven months of the current year (2018).
accordingly, the level of protection of the business community and the population increases, and the principle of inevitability of punishment is implemented.
and the conduct of large-scale inspections of the control and supervisory functions of state bodies in order to reduce and optimize them as measures to support SMEs and create a favorable business environment, the policy of alienation and privatization of state assets implemented in the country, the adoption of a law on self-regulation, allowing to establish rules on the market by direct participation of business entities in the regulation of certain types of industries, and the institution of public-private partnership between the State and the private sector to promote mutually beneficial cooperation through (mja).
According to the results of the study, wages in economic activities continue to be classified among groups of professions.
the average monthly salary of employees of the median value according to the results of a one-time survey amounted to * 106,253 tenge.
economic stability is strengthened by relatively high growth, policy flexibility and above-average per capita income.
In addition, within the framework of the coordination and methodological guidance of the commissioners for ethics of territorial divisions and departments, the Committee on Economics, Statistics and the Committee on the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, the Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights and their territorial divisions conducted anonymous questionnaires with the participation of 3,186 employees in order to comply with the standards of ethics and monitoring the moral and psychological state of the team.
Kazakh, who knows his history, language, culture, as well as worthy of modernity, speaks foreign languages, with an advanced and global view, should become the ideal of our society.
The main objective of the project is to support specialists who have arrived for work and residence in rural settlements.
icell introduced the successful experience of implementing a toll road system for transit transport in the country.
The deputy emphasized that cooperation should be based on mutually beneficial and complementary relations both on the part of the state and on the part of business.
The Minister also noted the professionalism of the team and assured that the ministry will make great efforts to fulfill the tasks that the department must fulfill: improving the level and quality of life of the population, further diversification of the country's economy, development of small and medium-sized businesses, and creating jobs.
inflation in the planned corridor.
the national bank and the government must jointly address the issue of long-term business lending with rates that take into account real efficiency in sectors of the economy.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations conducting real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, the cities of Almaty, Shymkent, Semey and regional centers.
During the meeting with the members of the expert group, the issues of mandatory self-regulation, the introduction of licensing in the field of industrial safety, the results of the regulatory impact analysis on the introduction of the notification procedure of garbage collection organizations, as well as self-regulation of the activities of a comprehensive non-departmental examination of projects for the construction of facilities in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction, accreditation of expert organizations and the introduction of certification of experts on the examination of projects should be considered.
mainly, growth was achieved due to an increase in coal production, increased production of diesel fuel, ferrochrome and steel pipes.
the formation of our city and becoming one of the most important centers for the development of Eurasia is our common pride.
these gender-sensitive summits have become a dialogue platform for discussing the latest innovations, developments and best practices in public planning and budgeting of leading eidu countries.
The purpose of the conference is to create a platform for constructive dialogue and cooperation of mental centers that freely share ideas, methods and strategies to solve current problems.
despite this, fiberglass does not belong to antifreezes and refrigerants, accordingly, the principle of bite does not apply to them.
as part of the bill, the system of state control and supervision will be conceptually changed, that is, instead of inspections carried out selectively, a new institution of preliminary control will be introduced. within the framework of the draft law , the system of state control and supervision is conceptually changing , that is , instead of inspections carried out in a selective manner , a new institute of preventive control is being introduced .
the winners of the competition will be awarded at a solemn meeting to be held in honor of the celebration of Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
fifth - on the initiative of the country's gas supply, experts noted that the construction of the gas pipeline will give an additional impetus to the development of the service sector, will lead to the provision of unemployed people in the regions with stable jobs, the development of new professions.
electricity, billions of dollars
It should be noted that public reception centres are working to identify consumer problems related to tariffs in the public services sector and are held on a weekly basis in all regions of the country.
At the same time, the managing partner of ernst and young erlan Druzhimbekov voiced proposals to prevent criminalization and issues of tax explanations aimed at reducing tax disputes.
Several business entities raised the issue of forcibly removing land and changing its purpose.
This should not be a popular irony in the understanding of 2012-2014, but nevertheless any stake in our strategic assets should be presented to the Kazakhstani retail investor in the domestic market.
at the meeting, the reasons and circumstances that contributed to the occurrence of offenses were considered, reports of the heads of all territorial divisions of the committee to determine the general prosecutor's office of the Republic of Kazakhstan were heard.
selling new housing
Today, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a solemn meeting dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the capital.
As a result of the implementation of the first phase of the country programme, Kazakhstan carried out separate structural and institutional reforms based on best practices and standards of eidu.
Majilis deputy Azas Peruashev stressed the need to increase the efficiency of privatization, and also called on the government to introduce a moratorium on the creation of new entities in the quasi-state sphere.
As noted by R.D., the main purpose of the draft law is to ensure the quality of statistical processes and products at the institutional level, taking into account international practice, international standards and principles.
in the second reading, amendments were made to comply with state control in the field of education, anti-doping measures in sports, as well as individual housing construction in areas with the threat of an earthquake.
at the same time, it should be noted that the tariff in the Zhambyl region is the lowest in the republic.
prices of food products for four months of the current year (2018).
compliance with all the instructions of the prosecutor's office, ensuring the timely introduction of compensation tariffs and the reduction of tariffs for basic utilities for the population on the facts identified, as well as timely information about this to the population.
One of the main reforms of this law is a fundamental change in the system of state control and supervision.
in particular, antitrust legislation introduced the concept of a "cartel" and prohibited horizontal decisions between market entities, which are malicious anticompetitive violators.
you need to continue working to increase professionalism and responsibility, improve discipline, and build public confidence in public bodies.
development of pedagogical departments and faculties in the universities of the country.
representatives of the department of the Committee for Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights informed monopolists about the work carried out to reduce unreasonable tariffs and the implementation of legislation and measures taken.
On this day, more than 300 people took part in the public reception.
at the same time, industrialization 4.0 should be the most innovative, taking full advantage of the new technological form.
the committee was also instructed to develop concrete proposals to change the way of work and strengthen control over interaction with territorial departments, ensure transparency and accessibility of information for residents of the country, and increase the responsibility of officials of territorial divisions of the committee.
The Strategy Committee of the Board of Directors was created to consider the planning and launching of state strategic tasks.
budget implementation, accounting for communal property, tax collection and other tasks.
Also, the Ministry of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan sent a decree, the implementation of which will allow to ensure the improvement of the mechanisms for regulating the mobile communication market by creating conditions for the preservation and development of competition.
fourth - as part of the discussion of the initiative to increase microcredit for business. in order to increase the availability of resources, the first step was to reduce the interest rate and increase the duration of microcredit.
public consumer associations:
these and other measures require legislative changes, including in the environmental code.
also, in particular, the growth trend of foreign trade turnover remains stable in conditions of favorable conditions in the world commodity market.
A new methodology for teaching the Kazakh language for Russian-speaking schools is being developed and implemented.
in accordance with the Russian and Kazakh obligations in the WCO on the factor of efficiency of the goods market, a procedure for reducing import customs duties for a number of certain goods is carried out annually.
based on their results, all proposals and complaints are systematized and, if necessary, unscheduled inspections of subjects of natural monopolies are carried out.
the period for conducting inspections in a special order was reduced from 30 working days to 15, unscheduled inspections - from 30 working days to 10.
the smallest density falls on Almaty region, 10.2 legal entities, in the capital - 59.9.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in June 2018 was estimated at 163,604 tenge.
The office of the akim of the rural district is developing a draft budget, which is necessarily discussed and agreed at a meeting of the local community.
the results of the survey showed a favorable moral and psychological climate in the team and business and friendly relations in the team.
at the same time, oil production decreased by 3.2%.
The seventh round table on WTO accession was organized by the Government of Kazakhstan together with the secretariat.
this agreement will improve the requirements for achieving the course of the Iranian market.
Thus, according to the Vice Minister, today it is necessary to strengthen the country's single market to support domestic producers, and the issue of interregional and intersectoral cooperation as an instrument for protecting the national market is relevant.
An integral part of improving the quality of educational services is the formation of a high-quality infrastructure for accommodating students.
Deputy Trade Representative Office of the village. One of the important issues of the meeting with the Gersh was the participation of Kazakhstan in the general system of preferences.
Among the plans in the country in the framework of the Strategic Plan for the Development of Kazakhstan until 2025 is the task to increase wool growth per capita to 46.1 thousand dollars, labor productivity on average to 4.7% per year.
prices are recorded in all regional centers, the capital and according to the established frames of cities and district centers according to the system of selection of enterprises of trade and services of various forms of ownership.
it is necessary to remotely diagnose the main chronic diseases, as well as move to manage this area of ​ ​ outpatient treatment from the use of ineffective and highly effective dispensary treatment for the state.
The review is one of the largest projects of the country cooperation programme of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Aidu.
thirdly, the conditions for the application of rehabilitation and bankruptcy procedures are systematically optimized (when opening procedures by canceling the debtor's debt limit, as well as when simplifying the determination of the debtor's financial position);
The Minister instructed the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights to develop a plan of operational actions within a specific period of time, including adjusting the law.
its results became one of the main stabilizing factors in the crisis of 2014-2015, when oil prices fell sharply.
the moderator of the panel session was the director of the center for applied research "requirement" R. Oshakbaev.
The Vice Minister noted the importance of the voiced proposals to intensify joint work in all areas of mutual cooperation on the part of the participants, and also thanked the NPP for supporting reforms in Kazakhstan by providing knowledge and innovation.
digitalization of processes of providing state support to business on the principle of one window.
in the field of public order and security, it is necessary to actively introduce intelligent video surveillance systems, identify citizens and monitor traffic on the streets and in public places of mass crowds.
each section is personalized.
fifth, simplifies the liquidation procedures for non-working enterprises (it is recommended not to initiate bankruptcy proceedings with long-term non-working work of small businesses and small turnover, to establish the identified conditions).
so, public receptions in the city of Kokshetau of Akmola of area, in the city of Atyrau of the Atyrau region, in the city of Semipalatinsk of the East Kazakhstan region, in the city of Karaganda of the Karaganda region, in the city to a kenta of the Turkestan region with participation of representatives of party "Nr Otan", "Atameken", local executive bodies, non-governmental organizations, public associations on consumer protection and also representatives of subjects of natural monopolies and mass media.
the State further guarantees the protection of the interests of ordinary citizens.
Other work and costs
State support measures for disabled citizens.
a forum in which countries compare their policies in various fields, share experiences, identify positive experiences in overcoming new risks and make decisions and recommendations aimed at ensuring a better life for citizens.
for this purpose, it is necessary to implement an intelligent transport system.
493.1 thousand people (5.6%) passed vocational training among the employed population, the training of which was paid for at the expense of the employer, other organizations - 493.1 thousand people (82.3%).
The action plan provides for such systemic measures as simplification of procedures in the field of land relations, creation of a register of qualified suppliers, optimization and reduction of the duration of lending processes, increased coverage of training and competence development programs for entrepreneurs, assistance to domestic producers in concluding long-term contracts with national companies and systemically important enterprises, etc.
The Vice-Minister of National Economy of the Yermek Alpys in his welcoming speech noted that idu actively promotes regional policies focused on economic growth and social benefits of people.
During the discussion, Timur Suleimen noted the importance of open and effective cooperation of the public sector with civil society.
after hearing the appeals of citizens, Timur Suleimenov explained all the questions raised within the competence of the governor and gave comprehensive answers.
The difference from the existing system of inspections is in the prevention and prevention of offenses without initiating administrative cases, "said Suleimenov.
our cooperation in various areas of economic unification, the main thing, based on mutually beneficial trust.
According to Ruslan Dalenov, the main difference between him and previous events is the new format and global agenda.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture, 138 thousand tons of sugar have been produced in the country since the beginning of the year and 121 thousand tons have been imported.
tax policy will be clear and understandable in general, "Dalenov said.
During the meeting, during which the Secretary-General of the Turkic Council became the moderator of the Amrei Baghdad, the heads of delegations considered the draft agreement on the creation of the Turkic investment fund, related to the newly created Turkic Chamber of Commerce and Industry and other issues.
The grouping of individual occupations by type of economic activity and nominal wage is as follows:
we intend to effectively implement all the tasks assigned to us.
the German side is ready to accept all expenses arising from the implementation of the program in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany according to the adopted document.
The World Bank's doingbusiness rating is one of the recognized world ratings.
During the talks, the parties discussed the general and horizontal provisions of the draft agreement, exchanged views on regulating the access of foreign suppliers to the domestic service market, as well as legislation in the field of investment and the movement of individuals.
the number of employees among the employed population during this period amounted to 6.6 million people (75.8% of the total number of employees).
prices of food products for three months of the current year (2018).
provision of social support measures under the project for specialists in the social sphere and the agro-industrial complex most in demand in rural settlements.
Among the issues of concern to the population are the abolition of the compensation tariff for electricity services, an auction fee from private bailiffs, the installation of a common house heat metering device, consumer protection and others.
in addition, a high level of expert discussion is established.
According to the results of the competition, the 1 place was taken by the chief expert of the department of monitoring and analysis of gardens of the department of public relations, the 2 place was taken by the expert of the department on the formation of a single economic space of the department of international economic integration aidan kalybayevna mahambetzhan, the 3 place was taken by the chief expert of the department of development of small and single-industry towns of the department of regional development.
conducting inspections against a subject reorganized or renamed at a meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship in the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (if the check is included in the inspection schedule in a special order), consideration of the inclusion of objects of small businesses with a high degree of risk in the inspection schedule in a special order from the day of their creation. (lifting the ban for three years), as well as amending the Entrepreneurial Code on the transfer of supervisory functions in the field of fire safety. The roadmap provides for measures (peace, km, Ministry of Internal Affairs, uem and ub).
Kazakhstan has passed various tests in the world and has embarked on the path of dynamic economic development.
Today, the concept of cybersecurity means not only information, but also the protection of the mechanism for managing industrial and infrastructure facilities.
percentage growth
the programme will contribute to the deepening of mutual cooperation among these States.
Issues requiring additional time for the study, the minister took personal control and instructed the heads of the relevant structural units of the ministry.
The Ministry is carrying out extensive work to improve legislation in the field of entrepreneurship and the recommendations of international experts.
however, at present, the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan does not allow opening such a business, in particular, the unresolved issue is that it is located in different points of the settlement in the directions of the city without being assigned to a certain territory.
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of June 4, 2018.
the signed agreement will allow OECD experts to study our legislation in the field of services and licensing, identify the barriers encountered and obtain an index showing Kazakhstan a fair assessment of market openness/coverage.
a number of applications have already been developed, a number are proposed to be supplemented.
food prices are recorded through an elected network of trading enterprises of all forms of ownership and in urban markets in large cities of Kazakhstan.
At the World Cup, our employee of the Kenzhebek channel won the Kazakh flag.
In conclusion, Tssuleimenov expressed gratitude for the opportunity to organize a dialogue on the exchange of experience in the field of creating a favorable business environment, favorable for the development of shock and the rapid development of new innovative companies in the conditions of necessary freedom and state support.
Since the end of March, the air carrier intends to resume the previous periodicity, that is, a two-time trip per week.
The newly appointed vice ministers of Madina Zhunusbekova and the wise Zhunusova thanked the leadership for their trust and expressed readiness for further fruitful work on the development of the country.
the minister also assured that the situation in the labor market is still favorable.
the main increase will be VAT, ecb for crude oil, as well as non-tax revenues.
The Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights (hereinafter - the Committee) chaired by the Vice-Minister of National Economy Serik Zhumangarin held a meeting with the participation of the heads of the committee and its territorial divisions.
public reception rooms are organized to inform the public about the ongoing work to ensure transparency of their activities in regional centers, cities of the capital, Almaty and Shymkent, as well as in cities of regional significance and to prevent unreasonable increase in utility tariffs.
sulphur dioxide (solid) and carbon monoxide continue to account for the bulk of air pollution emissions in the country.
The funds provided by the BB are used to finance priority projects for the following purposes:
and as for ethical compliance, first, you have to start with yourself.
Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber Atameken Zhursinov assessed the impact of the reforms on business, noting that the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is a full participant in the reforms of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the business sector.
the main center of exporters and investment projects, information and consulting assistance to entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, a useful regulatory and legal framework, the possibility of checking counterparties in order to identify unscrupulous companies and entrepreneurs of the Russian Federation, information about exhibition and fair activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, information about places attractive for tourism and recreation in Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan holds a public discussion on the issue of conducting an analysis of the regulatory impact on the exclusion of brokerage and dealer activities in the sphere of the commodity exchange through voluntary self-regulation and accreditation of brokers and dealers on commodity exchanges.
Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights Asan Darbaev, Director of the Department of Enterprise Development Aslanbek Dzhakupov, Deputy Director of the Department of Development of the State Management System Askarbek Ertayev spoke on the part of the Ministry.
* excluding small business enterprises.
the ratification of the agreement has been negotiated for two years.
In 1993-1994 - General Director of Yabloko.
In 1995-1996 - General Director of Yabloko.
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of February 5, 2018.
enactus is an international non-profit organization that brings together students, academic and business leaders who strive to use the opportunities of entrepreneurs to improve the quality and standard of living of people.
Kazakhstan reduced the time for registering value added tax and simplified the conditions for doing business.
Today, the head of state publicly signed a law on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
price of kilogram in tenge
labour market and wages
According to Gombasegi, the company comprehensively solves the issue of supplying water to residents of the city, small settlements, industrial enterprises.
the highest level of energy value of food products consumed by the population is observed in the East Kazakhstan region, and the minimum in the city of Astana.
Labor force movement by regions of Kazakhstan in the 2nd quarter of 2018
Fitch analysts note that the national bank is improving the regulatory system, the monitoring mechanism and continues to clear the banking sector, for example, revokes the licenses of banks that do not meet capitalization requirements.
the minister also instructed to study the increase in tariffs for the transportation of coal.
Askarbek Ertayev, Director of the Department of Development of the Public Administration System, reported on systematic work on transferring the functions of state bodies to a competitive environment and self-regulatory organizations.
good public administration.
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of January 3, 2018.
the exchange is a great opportunity to raise funding. the exchange is an excellent opportunity to attract financing .
loader, auxiliary worker
in addition, Kazakhstan is ready to consider the possibility of using Hungarian technologies for the collection and processing of industrial and domestic waste.
opening the event, the Vice Minister of National Economy noted that this law was developed in order to radically change and expand the business environment, as well as aimed at reforming state control and supervisory activities, regulating information tools and a mechanism for analyzing regulatory impact, reforming mandatory services provided by subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere, as well as eliminating rules that prevent competition.
In accordance with the programme of the seminar-meeting, separate sessions were held on the above topics, the participants of which discussed topical issues of public administration and prospects for further development.
however, the support of the Government and the national bank for the banking system has reduced risk in the short term.
fourthly, increases the attractiveness of rehabilitation procedures (the ability of an individual entrepreneur to open procedures, the removal of burdens and restrictions from the moment of application of the procedures);
* excluding small business enterprises.
this platform in the future will ensure close cooperation between small and medium-sized businesses both within the state and with large foreign producers, and for someone it is temporary, labor and others. possibility of finding potential service providers for the following.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin at a press conference in the Central Communications Service of Kazakhstan spoke about the news that is waiting for entrepreneurs and businessmen of Kazakhstan with the introduction of the law "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity."
we meet regularly with civil servants, always explain to them the basic provisions of the Code of Ethics and call for the prevention of violations of the legislation adopted in accordance with all standards of the Code of Ethics. we regularly hold meetings with civil servants , and each time we explain to them the main provisions of the code of ethics , urging them to adhere to and take into account all the norms of the code of ethics and not violate the established legislation .
During the press conference, journalists asked questions about the implementation of 10 main areas of the country's development, voiced by President Tokaev, measures to curb prices for socially significant goods, conducting a population census in 2020 and funds for them.
in addition, the "xell" was ordered to stop violations of the business code and eliminate their consequences, including the return of funds to consumers.
prices are recorded through a selective network of trade enterprises and services of various forms of ownership in all regional centers, the capital and according to the established frames of cities and district centers.
the favorable development of Kazakhstan made it possible to form the middle class.
The application of this mechanism implies that the employee receives immediate and guaranteed additional income (when receiving basic wages) and does not increase the financial burden of the employer.
For example, in the Altai city of East Kazakhstan region, the seminar was attended by akims of rural districts of four districts, which were divided into groups.
prices are recorded in all regional centers, the capital and according to the established frames of cities and district centers according to the system of selection of enterprises of trade and services of various forms of ownership.
this factor is a competitive advantage of the country.
During the seminar, budget program administrators asked questions about the practice of applying rules and regulations, on which they received comprehensive answers.
The participants of the meeting took part in the presentation of the club, where the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Netherlands to Kazakhstan arrived.
prices are recorded in all regional centers, the capital and according to the established frames of cities and district centers according to the system of selection of enterprises of trade and services of various forms of ownership.
make efforts to retrain teachers, attract foreign managers to universities and open campuses of world universities.
Head of the expert group - Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Summing up the meeting, within three years from the date of registration for small businesses and small entrepreneurs, issues of conducting inspections, as well as transferring supervisory functions in the field of fire safety require detailed analysis and study by state bodies taking into account the requirements of market relations.
You can find out about vacancies on the websites of akimats.
The head of the Republic of Kazakhstan said that from January 2019 to January 1, as part of the task to reproduce the incomes of the population, the minimum wage will increase 1.5 times and amount to 42 thousand 500 tenge.
the share of non-primary goods increased significantly - growth in this indicator amounted to 22.1%.
integration of information systems, the use of mobile digital applications, the introduction of an electronic health passport, the transition to a "hospital without paper use."
we have learned to grow grain crops.
In addition, for certain types of leasing services and industry points, additional requirements and conditions for market access (access) are established as permitting procedures, which does not allow performing relevant activities without entering the register and being included in the register.
it compensates for the decrease in oil production.
Further development of transport and logistics infrastructure.
a clear agreement was also reached to support an active dialogue aimed at reducing the possible economic impact of sanctions on the Kazakh economy.
At the same time, it was about preserving Kazakhstan's economic interests under the conditions of imposing sanctions against Russia and promoting Kazakhstan's possible membership in the Eida.
Practical approaches to gender mainstreaming in national planning and budgeting.
such memoranda will be signed in the future with the Center for Political Analysis and Strategic Studies of the Nur Otan Party, as well as the national infoquent holding Zerde.
the agreement should become an instrument for developing information exchange, identifying dams and promoting mutual trade with China, and will also further contribute to the search for a possible area of ​ ​ cooperation.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the parties will exchange views on violations of antitrust laws, experience in considering cases in the field of competition advocacy and on issues of multilateral cooperation in the field of antitrust law and competition policy.
when making decisions, the positions of all market participants were taken into account.
From 201 to 2018, the government carried out unprecedented radical reforms in Kazakhstan to improve the business climate.
The Commissioner for Ethics is a public servant who carries out activities to ensure compliance with standards of ethics and prevent violations of the law and the code of ethics on public service, combating corruption, as well as advising public servants and citizens within the limits of their functions.
According to the Minister, to improve the environmental situation, the legislation will be amended and supplemented to increase the amount of administrative sanctions for violation of environmental legislation.
The results of the presented rating showed the high progress of Kazakhstan in 6 out of 10 main areas.
The seminar was attended by the Commissioner of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Ethics a. Orazgulov.
high requirements for building quality, environmental cleanliness and energy efficiency.
participation in the environmental examination of projects as part of a comprehensive non-departmental examination of construction projects through the law improving the rules of "one window," simplifying the procedure for issuing a certificate of origin during export, regulating the procedure and deadlines for notifying the traffic police during work on the roadway, inclusion of factoring and financial leasing in rehabilitation and bankruptcy procedures, and improving the procedure for individual voting of creditors when approving a rehabilitation plan.
The deputies also introduced amendments to the bill to bring into line with the requirements of legal equipment and determine individual norms and improve their content.
The information was developed on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of October 5, 2018.
excluding for individuals
investments in fixed assets increased by 20.8%.
On behalf of Hungary, the Chargé d'affaires a.i. of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting.
In July, in connection with the expansion of the institute of regulatory impact analysis to the regional level, a number of field seminars will be held for local executive bodies.
The forum was attended by leaders of Kazakhstan and international retail markets, manufacturers and suppliers of domestic and foreign food and consumer goods.
at the same time, the system operates with a record low tariff, without reducing quality for the end user.
I want to recall that in 2016-2017, pensions and benefits increased three times.
The relationship between experience and compensation will also be strengthened in the social insurance system.
Adaptation of education, communications and standardization to the new demands of industrialization.
Thus, a resident of the capital became interested in the conditions for obtaining a grant for entrepreneurial activities, as well as the principles of the competitive commission when considering competitive applications.
According to the Vice Minister, Kazakhstan sets itself an ambitious goal - to enter the top 30 developed countries.
wheat flour of the first grade
addressing the participants of the meeting, aibatyr Zhumagulov noted the timeliness and relevance of the action plan for the development of cooperation.
As the Director of the Department of Development of Large Business of Kazakhstan noted. Dzhakupov, the ministry conducts this work on an ongoing basis.
For example, the chairman of the standing commission on work with the legislative norms of the public association "Regional Council of War and Labor Veterans" and solving the social and everyday problems of veterans took part in the public reception in Akmola region.
All possible methods of extrajudicial and pre-trial settlement of disputes have also been established, rules have been approved on the legal rule of the authorized body for the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs, and an investment ombudsman.
According to the akimats of the region and the cities of the capital and Almaty, the stabilization funds currently retain sufficient sugar reserves.
processing of raw materials acquires incentives, credit is supported, has a favorable hunting and shoba regime.
Compared to January-April 2017, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year increased by 3.9%.
in the case of a positive solution to this transaction, Kazakhtelecom enters the country's mobile market for the first time.
this year, tariff growth decreased by an average of 2.4%.
the discussion of this topic includes Vice Minister of National Economy M. Zhunisbekova, Vice Minister of Agriculture G. Sisaev, Deputy Chairman of the State Revenue Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Takiev, Director of the Center for Assessing the Effectiveness of White State Bodies "Institute of Economic Research," Assistant Commissioner for Audit and Chief Executive Officer of Audit, assessments and risks of the Canadian revenue agency brian filbin, Eidu adviser to the lahiji cut, Directorate of Public Administration Policy Analyst Simon Schmitz, Ottawa (Canada) Senior Director of the Management Institute Michael O'nill and others.
in general, along with other measures for the work of internal affairs bodies to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens, it affects the improvement of Kazakhstan's position in the ranking of countries.
entrepreneurs appealed against the actions of architectural bodies and state revenues when fixing the placement of objects of outdoor (visual) advertising with subsequent taxation.
secondly, program participants are given a budget loan of 1,500 monthly calculated indicators for the purchase or construction of housing.
a year ago, Kazakhstan occupied the 36th position in the ranking "doing business."
the net income of the national fund would be positive, taking into account income and utilization.
for individuals
The difference from the existing system of inspections is in the prevention and prevention of offenses without initiating an administrative case, "said a representative of the fund.
The main goal of the document is to radically improve and expand the business environment, as well as reduce administrative barriers and business costs.
in this regard, it is necessary to develop university science, which gives priority to the study of the industries of metallurgy, oil and gas chemistry, the agro-industrial complex, bio- and it-technologies.
subsidization in the following areas: processing of agricultural products, manufacturing and services, the operator of which is "kdk," will be carried out as part of the state program bck-2020.
member of the economic policy council, Alberta deputy drew the attention of the meeting participants to issues of lending, subsidies and other mechanisms that contribute to the development of entrepreneurship.
The number of migrants who left the country increased by 34.9% to 2,258 people, the difference in migration was 898 people.
The specialized inter-district administrative court of Almaty by a decision of November 20, 2018 found the company guilty of an offense and imposed an administrative penalty in the form of an administrative fine of 11,618,205,36 tenge (currently entered into legal force).
Of particular interest were areas of WTO member countries, such as sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to trade, protection of intellectual property rights, and restrictions on the transit of goods through the territory of the Union and its members.
the report on the results of the subnational rating study consists of a comparative analysis of four indicators: opening an enterprise, obtaining a construction permit, connecting to a power supply system and registering property.
these and other measures, according to Turlibekov, will achieve the goals of improving Kazakhstan's position in the global competitiveness index def.
Zhaslan Madiyev addressed the participants of the meeting, noting that China is one of the largest trade and economic partners of Kazakhstan.
The main priority of educational programs should be a constant tendency to change and the development of the ability to master new knowledge.
During the conversation, Timur Suleimen heard a statement by the sholpan Sadvakasova, commented on all the questions received regarding the tax code, and gave comprehensive answers.
As of January 1, 2018, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 412,677 units and increased by 7.5% compared to the same period last year, including 403,862 units with less than 100 employees.
According to the Vice Minister, according to the results of the 2017 assessment, Kazakhstan took 57th place among 137 countries in the def-ji rating.
there is an increase in the share of non-primary products, new commodity rules appear in the export structure.
the successful issuance of shares of national companies "Samruk-kazyna Sovereign Wealth Fund" on ipo will contribute to the development of the stock market.
copper ores, million tons
revenues of the republican budget in 2019 are estimated at 7.0 trillion tenge.
according to the results of the audit, a number of gross violations were identified.
Switching to the Latin alphabet will resolve this problem.
During the discussion on promoting Kazakhstan's possible eidu membership and raising the status of our country in a number of committees of the organization, the American side expressed its readiness to provide assistance in this direction.
On August 2 of this year, a round table was held at the site of a special monitoring group with the participation of representatives of non-governmental organizations of the city of Astana to discuss the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the redistribution of powers between levels of state administration," developed by the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for budget organizations
the charity race was held jointly with the Voluntary Society of Mercy public foundation as part of a social project of good deeds of public servants.
the reduction above tariffs leads to a decrease in the size of the check for payment of utilities of the average population per month (water supply, sanitation, electricity, heat supply and gas supply).
Deputy Minister of National Economy S. Zhumangarin presented a draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On introducing amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity" at a meeting of the parliament.
In turn, Madi Takiyev thanked the leadership for its trust and expressed readiness for further fruitful work.
In addition, taking into account the introduction of level 4 of the budget in rural areas, the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption is working to include in the project administrative state employees working in the office of akims in rural (village) areas.
4385 km of water supply networks and 616 km of drainage will be built, "said Dalenov.
The question of obtaining a grant for entrepreneurial activity is asked by a resident of the capital botagoz shynykulova.
on the part of the national bank, control over the activities of institutions.
The Enterprise Reliability Index of industrial enterprises is calculated as a percentage as the arithmetic average of the "balances" of the estimate of the level of actual demand and stocks of finished products (the latter with a reverse sign), as well as the expected changes in production volumes.
these workshops were conducted in a learning-based format.
unemployed (in accordance with hashing standards) are persons who do not have a successful profession (work), actively looking for it and are ready to start work.
at the same time, the production of basic pharmaceutical products decreased.
for other consumers
Representatives of the ministry announced their proposals to improve and expand the interaction of state bodies and civil society institutions, the development of the non-governmental sphere, as well as possible areas of mutual cooperation.
Following the meeting, the results of the project were presented to the participating states of the two countries.
a fair system of quality employment and social security.
raw milk, liter
the position on three factors has not changed: "information and communication technologies," "market volume," "innovative potential."
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimen and Minister of Economic Development of the Russian Federation Maxim Oreshkin on Friday signed a memorandum of intent to develop and implement the Kazakhstan-Russia cross-border cooperation program.
in their opinion, the annual forum is recognized as a dialogue platform for finding effective solutions to combat the main economic and social challenges of our time.
together they can implement socially significant projects based on business innovations. together they manage to promote socially significant projects based on business innovation .
Members of the Majilis, representatives of central state bodies, quasi-state sphere, higher educational institutions and representatives of the business community took part in the round table to create a constructive discussion.
tariffs for postal and courier services to legal entities
tariffs for postal and courier services to legal entities
The study involves employees who worked fully in September.
percentage, growth
the Ministry of National Economy has now been given control over the support of private business entities and the protection of their rights and interests.
cooperation among Turkic-speaking States has become a clear platform for strategic partnership among Member States. the cooperation of the turkic-speaking states becomes a real platform for a strategic partnership between the countries of the ccts .
* excluding small business enterprises.
On the part of the Para Development Program, a permanent representative of the Pair Development Program in Kazakhstan took part.
According to him, digitalization can become an important factor in the development of industries in which cooperation is carried out.
strengthening the guarantees of the constitutional rights of citizens, ensuring the rule of law, and humanizing law enforcement.
A bill has been drafted to improve the efficiency of the transfer of public functions to the competitive environment.
Other issues:
the relevance of this issue was supported by the representative of the Kazakhstan Independent Union of the Timur Zharken Auto Business.
It is necessary to give more opportunities to attract people to productive work, create conditions for starting their personal business or employment with obtaining a new specialty.
this law will in many ways improve the conditions for the legal regulation of entrepreneurial activity and ensure the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs in legal relations, which today are the most vulnerable places, reduce the administrative burden on them, "said the zhangar.
sunflower oil, litre
The secretariat of the organization, headquartered in Istanbul, Turkey, is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the decisions of the Security Council, as well as the preparation and holding of summits and expert meetings.
n. Zhannazarova summed up the results of the seminar and thanked the Commissioner for Ethics of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan A. Orazgulov for the difficult information work.
Director of the Department of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan Aslanbek Dzhakupov in his report spoke about the measures taken in the republic to develop entrepreneurship.
public receptions with branches of the Nur Otan, Atameken party are held jointly with the NPP, NGOs, subjects of natural monopolies and the socially significant market and are organized to inform the public about the ongoing work to ensure transparency of their activities in regional centers, cities of the capital, Almaty and Shymkent, as well as cities of regional significance and to prevent unreasonable increase in utility tariffs.
he should deal primarily with the transfer of new technologies and their adaptation to domestic conditions.
such seminars will enable participating countries to strengthen partnerships, demonstrate global knowledge and innovation, and discuss the World Trade Organization Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, Technical Barriers to Trade.
the increase in prices for meat and meat products over the indicated period amounted to 6.9%.
Vice Minister reported on trade between the two countries.
The basis of the interaction of the Republic of Kazakhstan with eidu is the country cooperation program, which contributed to a number of important reforms in the country.
In turn, representatives of the WEF familiarized the Kazakh delegation with the updated tactics and def work on the fourth industrial revolution.
The parties noted that the training and development of senior personnel and the managerial reserve in the field of the economy will make a significant contribution to the further development of bilateral relations.
thus, compliance with the requirements of the law is checked not only by business entities, but also by state bodies.
this program is designed to improve the state of housing and communal services in general, having solved the task of improving the regions, providing the population with drinking water and sanitation effectively and economically.
smart cities will become the engines of regional development, the spread of innovation and improving the quality of life throughout the country.
Following the results of the forum a. Jakupov thanked the participants for the fruitful discussion and noted that holding such a meeting is an excellent opportunity to build a constructive dialogue between business and the state.
social payments, including raising pensions, will increase incomes of more than 3 million Kazakhstanis.
it is expected that the implementation of this initiative will have a positive impact on the introduction of gender aspects into state programs, plans and the budget system, will increase their transparency and effectiveness, taking into account the interests, opportunities and rights of each member of Kazakh society.
knowledge of the Russian language remains important.
According to the statistical business register at the beginning of 2008, 268,564 legal entities were registered, at the beginning of 2018 it amounted to 412,677.
In conclusion, M.Zzhunisbekova thanked the representatives for organizing the seminar and working together.
the unemployment rate was 4.8 per cent of the labour force.
the unemployment rate was 4.9 per cent of the labour force.
During the briefing, the deputy head of the department answered all questions from citizens and representatives of the media.
this is 1.2-2.0 times higher than the average salary of women.
then the minister focused on the indicators in each industry.
Portland cement, million tons
At the event, on behalf of veterans, a veteran of statistics of the Togim Tolepbaev, a veteran of the USSR state plan Khamit Birbanov and Anatoly Abramenets, as well as the chairman of the Council of Veterans of the USSR state plan Rose Bolashova spoke, thanking them for their unforgettable work and inheritance of offspring.
tax disputes will decrease with the introduction of tax innovation, the number of inspections will decrease, administration will be simplified.
a decrease in buckwheat prices was recorded by 21.1%.
The Minister also drew attention to the important role of students studying at the universities of the two countries, the further deepening of trade and economic relations between the two states.
As representatives of the Ministry of National Economy noted, the parties have seriously completed negotiations on the main text of the agreement and the annex "dispute resolution."
7 types of tax and other non-tax revenues, as well as 19 areas of expenditure were transferred to the village budget.
Director of the Department of Analysis and Assessment of Regions of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan Anar Baitnkenova informed members of the working group about the current state of interregional and intersectoral cooperation within the country.
excluding for other consumers
Thus, in accordance with article 208 of the Business Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the antimonopoly committee established a number of conditions and requirements in the interests of consumers of the country and the development of the industry as a whole, violation of which entails a review of the decision, including the cancellation of the transaction in court.
thus, without damaging the environment and consumers, business costs will be significantly reduced.
they choose a city that will live comfortably and work, not a country.
Following the meeting, the parties noted the need for closer cooperation with NGOs, as well as the emergence of new mechanisms of interaction.
international. Representatives of the organizations discussed the latest world practices and expressed their readiness to analyze the economic and financial situation in the field of attracting investment.
updated content - modern curricula that meet international standards and have been adapted in Nazarbayev intellectual schools.
The event was attended by representatives of the bank and the scientific sphere, the business community and government bodies.
in general, the regional policy of Kazakhstan is designed to ensure the formation of favorable conditions and factors for increasing the economic competitiveness of the regions, strengthening the quality of life of the population regardless of place of residence, "said E. Alpysov.
at the same time, the production of basic pharmaceutical products decreased.
public hearings were held with the participation of local executive bodies, deputies of the maslikhat, the Atameken NPP, members of the expert council, local authorities, representatives of public organizations and other interested persons, as well as representatives of the garden.
The basis for achieving the set tasks is the harmonization of 7 system changes and 7 priority policies in the implementation of Strategy-2050, the minister said.
In addition, Kazakhstan intends to organize a course for internship of participants in Germany.
also, according to the director of the department, special attention is paid to competition in the face of global risks and new trends in the global economy.
Speaking about the modernization of the Kazakh economy, Suleimenov noted that one of its most important priority areas is the radical improvement and expansion of the business environment.
In his speech, he emphasized Kazakhstan's active participation in peacekeeping.
The proposed theme of the forum involves a deep and comprehensive expert approach, appropriate depth and a high degree of discussion.
The State and companies should ensure strong protection of their information systems and devices with the introduction of new technologies.
A set of measures was implemented to intensify operational-search measures to indicate the costs of business from organized crime, to identify and suppress crimes committed by organized criminal groups.
Wool growth in the reporting period remained at 4.1%.
in total, about 80 people took part in the seminar.
The Minister expressed confidence that the accumulated experience, knowledge and professional skills of the new deputies will be used to achieve the tasks set.
otherwise, why such a state body?
Maybe we still need to see, I definitely didn't know the questions.
training sessions, meetings, round tables with the participation of representatives of the business community are held in each region.
The forecast of "stable" Kazakhstan includes relevant amendments made by analysts to improve the economic situation, government bonds at minimum oil prices. Assessing the performance of the banking system.
he voiced five proposals for reform in the financial market.
At the end of the meeting, the participants had the opportunity to ask their questions to the representative of the economic department.
Kazakhstan noted the need for joint efforts in the development of bilateral relations and cooperation in various aspects of trade and economic potential.
steel output also declined.
in relation to Kegok JSC, which distributes electric energy to networks at the interregional level, its tariff should increase by 12% (from 2.4 to 2.8 tenge/kvz) from January 1, 2019 as part of the 5-year limit tariff approved in 2015.
The Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the near future plans to make appropriate amendments to regulatory legal acts.
Nevertheless, Kazakhstan's achievements are considered a reliable support, but we must be well aware that this is not the key to our success tomorrow.
2) upon receipt of a lifting allowance and a budget loan for the purchase of housing:
The main goal of the round table is to develop opinions and proposals for the implementation of five social initiatives voiced by the head of state.
As a result, from January 1, 2019, a decrease in retail electricity prices for the population is expected in all regions of the republic.
During the talks, special attention was paid to the implementation of the agreements reached between the presidents of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in January this year.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan aibatyr Zhumagulov noted the special importance of the exchange's activities for the domestic enterprise.
A comprehensive action plan for 2018-2019 is being implemented to improve the organization of work on the prevention of intentional killings according to the indicator of the number of crimes.
If we want the Kazakh language to be cheerful, then we must adapt to modernity, and not complicate it with abnormal terminology.
The interlocutors noted the gradual growth of trade between Kazakhstan and the united Arab emirates.
Welcoming remarks were made by the heads of the committee's departments, noting that the activities of the departments are aimed at tariff regulation of natural monopolies, monitoring compliance with legislation in the field of natural monopoly, regulated market, protection of competition and consumer rights, implementation of energy and resource-saving measures, creation and maintenance of favorable conditions for fair competition in commodity markets.
The Romanian side indicated with interest its readiness for closer and more fruitful cooperation in these areas.
⁾ in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Youth Policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
recently, a statement was published on the pages of some domestic news sites by representatives of Raymbek about the possible occurrence of a sugar shortage in the Kazakh market.
provision of medical personnel and their quality training.
Aef became the main platform of the best scientists and experts of the world in economic science, Nobel Prize winners, where young Kazakh economists receive valuable knowledge and experience, - summed up R. Dalenov.
In January 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 16,380 and decreased by 13.3% compared to the previous month.
a stable forecast shows a fitch assessment: currently, positive factors and risks are balanced for ratings.
For the first time, legislation regulates the provision by subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere of compulsory services (issuance for individuals and legal entities of various mandatory documents (terms of reference, certificates and others) that are permissive.
The representative of the Ministry of Justice noted that according to the results of the "doing bussines" -2018 report, "Kazakhstan, according to the" opening of enterprises "indicator, rose from 45th to 41st place (increase to 4th place).
Based on a pragmatic method, I want to call on participants to strengthen economic stability in the region and coordinate integration processes.
development of modern standards in all major specialties.
estimated in real terms by 1.9%.
in addition, systemic measures to solve problems were discussed.
this will allow all Kazakhstanis, including residents of remote settlements, to get advanced knowledge and competencies.
Hungary will share with Kazakhstan the methodology in the field of seed certification and the process of its cultivation.
the minister expressed confidence that the accumulated experience, knowledge and professional skills of the new deputy will be used to achieve the tasks set.
for example, industrial production has maintained a steady upward trend.
proud of him.
According to him, this trend is due to a number of issues:
including:
however, the administrative costs of the employer have been minimized.
Kazakhstan is in 28th place
Presenting the candidacy of M.Takiev to the team, the Minister of National Economy expressed confidence that the Dalen channel uses the experience, knowledge and professional skills gained by the new deputy in achieving the tasks.
During the selection process, all applicants are given an equal opportunity and the country's regions are involved in the program.
representatives of government bodies and business circles discussed the current state of the country's stock market within the framework of the KASE day in astana business morning organized by Kazakhstan Stock Exchange.
In addition, ethics commissioners always provide advice to public servants on compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the areas of public service, combating corruption and the code of ethics, advocacy, monitoring and monitoring of compliance with ethics standards. "
this would reduce the wage imbalance of public officials in the centre and regions and take into account the nature and efficiency of the work.
reduction and optimization of control and supervision functions of state bodies.
Ruslan Dalenov thanked the country's leadership and the government for their great confidence and expressed readiness for further hard work on the development of the state.
previously, he served as deputy chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
A one-time survey of enterprises and organizations on certain types of economic activity is conducted by the Statistics Committee of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to obtain information on the known (current) professions of employees and the amount of the average monthly salary for the positions of employees.
One of the relevant issues at the meeting was the constant monitoring of the accounts of public servants on social networks with materials misinforming the public servant and the public service.
During the implementation of the project, experts will analyze Kazakhstan's legislation in the field of trade, licensing of services, identify administrative barriers and make recommendations for improving the regulation of services, based on the best practices of the Aidu countries.
During the seminar issues of implementation of inter-budget relations and budgetary processes, management of communal property of local self-government, procedure of state procurement and imposition of administrative fines were discussed.
The programme of the seminar consists of the application of neutral measures, the implications of their application in trade and sustainable development, the mechanisms for notifying them and the importance of transparency.
In order to conduct an open dialogue with business, identify and solve the problems that entrepreneurs face today, the Ministry of National Economy will conduct public acceptance for business in the regions where the audit is carried out.
Representatives of state bodies, the Almaty branch of the Nur Otan party, the regional chamber of entrepreneurs of Almaty, the association of entrepreneurs, the Atameken NPP, as well as the business community took part in the work of public receptions.
The working group includes heads of state bodies regulating the service sector of the EAEU member states, heads of bodies authorized to carry out interaction between the EAEU member states and the Eurasian Economic Commission, officials of the Eurasian Economic Commission, and the leadership of the Atameken NPP.
Following the meeting, the chairman of the faction council, the deputy peacefully noted that in general, some work is underway to apply the entrepreneurial code.
The Center for Economics also supports socially significant projects that work on the peoplefirst principle.
Currently, work is underway on the next package of amendments to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, providing for systemic changes in the framework of the main indicators of the doing business rating (7 packages).
The competition was attended by civil servants working in central executive bodies aged 21 to 29 years.
May this important holiday become a symbol of the prosperity of our homeland, peace and interethnic harmony, happiness and health of each house, joy and confidence in the future!
the ministry also implemented a set of measures to increase the competitiveness of the regions, the development of economic development centers, promising single-industry towns and villages, including strong rural and border settlements.
the norms of the code are aimed at stimulating the integrity of business entities, as well as creating partnerships between the state and business.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in accordance with international standards is formed taking into account surcharges, allowances, remuneration, as well as taxes and other deductions (income tax, mandatory pension contributions).
The main directions and provisions of the law were explained in detail by the Deputy Director of the Department of Enterprise Development of the Ministry of National Economy Aslanbek Zhakupov.
the cost of living on average per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption standards for basic foods, decreased by 1.6% in September 2018 compared to the previous month, and increased by 12.1% compared to December 2017.
In August 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 24,919 and increased by 8.4% compared to the previous month.
in general, according to the developers of the bill, its adoption will ensure a wide reduction in business costs for video production, saving resources, increasing labor productivity and improving the business climate.
Adopted laws:
a digital Kazakhstan integrated program has been adopted.
a representative of any ethnic group can choose any job and even be able to run for president.
The Hungarian side holds international events in the capital. Commissioning of the center will help strengthen Kazakhstan's position in the region, as well as in the Hungarian region. contributes to the emergence of interest on the part of institutions of Kazakhstan.
The bureau of the primary party organization includes: Zhumabekov, Zhumabekov, Urazgulov, Akylbek Sarbaevich, Aydapkelov Nurbolat Sergeula, Mayti citizen Bakdauletula, Amrin citizen Kemengerula, Kazanbayev Erzhan Kaldybayuly, Kerimrai Shayabek Altynbekul Altynbekula, zhal, ZhambylBylbekal daal dAural Kauren,
this reflects the gradual strengthening of the monetary policy pursued by the central bank of the country and, at the same time, the favourable conditions in the field of oil prices and oil production.
During the discussion, the main aspects and problematic issues of providing Kazakhstanis with housing, reducing the tax burden of citizens, improving the accessibility and quality of higher education, improving the situation of students, developing microcredit and gas supply of the country were discussed.
a. smailov also expressed confidence that the newly appointed Minister of National Economy will apply the accumulated experience and knowledge, professional skills in successfully fulfilling the tasks set by the government to stabilize the economy and increase the socio-economic development of the country.
development of digital educational resources, connection to broadband Internet and equipping our schools with DVRs.
The participants drew attention to a number of documents regulating the interaction of the Commonwealth countries in the field of innovation, interstate standardization, health care, antimonopoly, energy engineering and the development of the chemical industry, advanced training of personnel in various areas.
Advisory Committee on Tax Policy and Administration of the Advisory and Advisory Body at the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission on Tax Policy, Improvement of Tax Collection Mechanisms in Mutual Trade in accordance with Section XVII of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, Development and Implementation of Programs and Projects of the EAEU Member States in the field of tax policy and administration.
commission members also agreed on joint activities to mutually promote business, medical, environmental and ethnographic tourism.
the provisions of the agreement regulate the application of customs procedures and rules for determining the country of origin of goods aimed at simplifying sanitary and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade, trade procedures and are based on WTO and international law.
In addition, new amendments to the Business Code have been introduced this year, providing for the introduction of the institution of preliminary control.
among the agreements is the creation of a working group on cooperation in the field of nuclear energy.
As a result of the processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, the number of people born in January-April 2018 amounted to 124.3 thousand people, which is 2.4% more than in January-April 2017.
Ruslan Kenzhebekov showed his many years of experience in the international arena, won a gold medal at the World Sambo Championship.
Improving the quality of mathematics and science education at all levels of education.
everyone in the public service must understand the importance of his work, be a patriot of his country and take all measures to increase the prestige of the public service.
Within 7 years, it is planned to provide support villages with a process of "managed urbanization" and create a favorable habitat in them, increasing the population by 600 thousand people and reaching 6.1 million people.
in addition, the draft law on the development of the business environment and the regulation of trade activities was approved by the working group of the Majilis of Parliament and aimed at elaborating in the government, provides for amendments to the regional code that strengthen the conduct of inspections of monopolists.
the share of hydrocarbons in the diet of the population of rural areas (bread and cereals) is higher than in urban areas.
built and built houses and infrastructure facilities must be equipped with intelligent management systems.
The need to take into account the regional aspect in the implementation of the 7-20-25 initiative was also voiced.
Following the results of a seminar the results of work of member countries were summed up. services and their participation in electronic commerce.
The construction company creatio has a high international experience in implementing ambitious architectural solutions using green technologies.
In 2016-2019, he served as deputy chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
One of the functions of the management committee is to prepare regulatory and procedural barriers to trade in member countries.
Continue the project of free vocational education for all.
GDP growth is characterized by a change in the production of goods and services in the economy during a specific period.
that is, according to the types of taxpayers, there is its own section.
real cash income in the face of rising wages and a slowdown in inflation processes in January-August increased by 3.5%, "said Timur Suleimenov.
industrial services
Also, together with the Ministry of Energy, work is underway to reduce wholesale prices for electricity and gas.
Due to the lack of local representative bodies at the level of the rural district, the budget of the rural district is approved by the maslikhat of the district (cities of regional significance).
As part of the first phase of the country programme, eidu experts conducted reviews on the territorial development of Kazakhstan and urban development policy.
in turn, since glass is a specific product, it is impossible to collect, transport, process and dispose of its residue.
in turn, the akims of rural districts made proposals on the need to provide additional types of taxes at the iv level of the budget in order to further improve the legislation regarding the development of local self-government and increase their financial independence.
Two pilot government bodies for the eidu analysis: the Ministry and agriculture, the results of which are used in the above instruction.
The first day of the seminar is devoted to a comprehensive study of the theoretical basis of the rat, its concept, procedures, methodology and modern trends in world practice.
The Minister also decided to reorient the entire training system against the backdrop of seven systemic changes facing the country; implementation of technological update; activating the private sector; the creation of a favourable trade regime in cooperation with the countries of the world; eliminating corruption; development due to increased economic independence of the regions, etc.
the index is calculated in order to determine the level of investment attractiveness in the country and is an important indicator in international negotiations, where a large number of countries have recently been reliably located.
representatives of various organizations and departments worked out joint decisions to increase the rate of business development in Kazakhstan and improve its conditions, and also discussed current issues.
In this regard, the Ministry of National Economy reports that in relation to the entrepreneurial community of the city of Almaty, February 20-22, in the building of the Almaty branch of the Nur Otan party, from 10 to 17:00, a public reception room operates for everyone.
- The institution of an anti-corruption consultant (from among ordinary employees on a voluntary basis) is introduced in each branch of the Ministry.
strengthening of proactive trade policy, support of Kazakhstan exporters, transition to export-oriented industrialization, which provides for measures to strengthen support for domestic producers. there will be a transition to export-oriented industrialization , which includes measures to strengthen proactive trade policy , support kazakhstani exporters , and strengthen support for domestic producers .
This year, a new mechanism has been launched to launch the stock market.
this will help to rationally integrate the younger generation into the research sphere and the production and technological environment.
in addition, the ministry is working to massively reduce business costs.
this will encourage teachers to constantly improve.
however, it is difficult to say how much the new law will actually contribute to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The National Bank should not neglect such cases.
in the regional context, the highest wage was set in Atyrau region - 320.5 thousand tenge, which is almost 1.8 times higher than the average republican indicator.
In turn, Suleimenov expressed readiness to assume the coordinating role of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan on the internal interdepartmental study of the creation of a "green corridor" on the border.
in general, it should be noted that the conclusion of this agreement with Serbia will unify the existing trade regime in the eurozone countries
The goal of the race is not only to promote a healthy lifestyle, but also to help terminally ill children in Kazakhstan within the framework of the charity project "House" kk "Give Children Life."
Zhakupov noted that in practice this approach allows the state authority to comprehensively analyze all information on the entrepreneur and check only the "possible offender" who requires strict control.
heads of regional departments of the statistics committee of the ministry. Madiyev, E. Musina, Kokkozova, director of the white center "Institute of Economic Research" with. Akhmetzhanov and First Deputy Chairman of the Board of the "Kazakhstan Public-Private Partnership" D. Ashimov was awarded the Order of Honor.
the agreement also provides for a transparency mechanism that ensures transparency of the legal regulation system, processes for the adoption of public measures and administrative acts, processes for the operation of state bodies, etc.
with the expansion of specific sectors of the economy, production in the unrealized sector of the economy increases.
for this, bank owners should be economically responsible, recognizing the costs.
in general, the country's regional policy is aimed at improving the quality of life regardless of the location of the population. in general , the regional policy of the country is aimed at improving the quality of life of the population regardless of their place of residence .
Remuneration of workers in terms of economic activities and professions.
According to the organizers, the aeff will become a platform for discussing topical issues on the world agenda and developing proposals for solving them.
tariffs in the field of housing and communal services, garbage collection increased by 12.6%.
for example, productivity can be increased at times through intelligent forecasting systems for optimal sowing and harvest time, smart irrigation, mineral fertilizer sowing, pest and weed control.
the minister expressed confidence that the experience, knowledge and professionalism of the new deputy will be used in achieving the tasks set.
valid tariffs (price), except for kks
The representative of Kazakhstan expressed sincere gratitude to veterans for significant work, professionalism, a great contribution to the development of state planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan and wished them good health, family well-being and longevity.
The parties also recognized the need to intensify cooperation between Hungary and the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of water resources management through the application of specific business projects and solutions.
introducing them, Timur Suleimen reported to the Madina Junusbekova that the task of state bodies and project management is to oversee issues of strategic planning and analysis, social policy and development.
During the meeting, the Kazakh delegation was headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. smailov, the Ministry of National Economy was headed by the Vice Minister of Zhaslan Madiev.
In conclusion, a. Zhakupov noted another tool to reduce risks associated with fluctuations in the exchange rate of tenge - hedging (foreign exchange risk insurance).
however, there are systemic points, so in order for them to continue to work effectively without an annual tariff increase, we, on the contrary, must reduce these tariffs either taking into account new technologies and approaches, or seeking approval.
Majilis deputies adopted the proposed amendments in the first reading.
The study tour was organized as part of a project to strengthen the national gender-based planning and budgeting system in Kazakhstan by para-women.
National qualification tests in place worldwide.
flour, million tons
when drafting the bill, we studied the best experience of the Aidu countries. during the formation of the draft law , the best practices of oecd countries were studied .
Regular monitoring and analysis of the market for socially important goods in order to prevent price agreements and unreasonable growth.
in particular, the participants of the seminar were introduced to world best practices in results-based budgeting, project and budget evaluation mechanisms, and the budgeting system and trends in Singapore.
industrialization should become a leader in the introduction of new technologies.
In 1988-1989 - junior, senior researcher at the Almaty Institute of Architecture and Construction.
The number of migrants who left the country increased by 14% to 17,171 people, the difference in migration was 10,803 people.
During the negotiations, special attention was paid to digitalization and technological modernization of the economy, strengthening mutually beneficial supplies of goods and services, expanding the range of export products, implementing new joint projects, as well as effectively summarizing the "one belt, one way" initiative with a new "bright path" economic policy.
senators, in turn, confirmed the importance of Kazakhstan as the main partner in the region and noted the non-participation of anti-Russian sanctions in the economy of Kazakhstan.
The health sector will gradually adopt a system of compulsory social health insurance based on the shared responsibility of the population, the State and the employer.
this creates favorable conditions for the population, reduces the consumption of electricity, heat and water, stimulates natural monopolists to work effectively.
S. Zhumangarin noted that the bill proposed in order to fulfill the instructions of the head of state aimed at radically improving and expanding the business environment was developed by the department together with the Atameken NPP.
In September 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 25,048 and increased by 0.5% compared to the previous month.
The Speaker noted the importance of an open and effective dialogue of the state sphere with the business community of Kazakhstan.
to achieve this goal, a systematic policy is being implemented to deregulate business, a permitting system is being improved, the control and supervisory activities of state bodies are being optimized, and the business climate is improving.
in the second quarter of the current year, the turnover coefficient for admission amounted to 7.6%, the turnover coefficient for dismissal - 7.8%, the instability coefficient of the labor force - 6.0%.
The visit of the working group is one of the important events that positively affect the improvement of the business climate, increased competitiveness and investment attractiveness of the country.
In addition, during the "Costs and Benefits of WTO Accession" session, experts discussed issues of the global trading system and exchanged experiences of member countries of the organization.
for example, in the city of Kentau, Turkestan region, citizens after emergency recovery work on the part of the enterprise are concerned about the restoration of sidewalks and asphalt roads, landfills, benefits for mothers with many children and pensioners, higher prices for bread, emissions of enterprises that damage the environment and others.
in general, the chosen territories will concentrate on economic activity in the country and will become a force for attracting human capital and basic industries. in general , it is assumed that urbanized territories will concentrate economic activity in the country and act as a " center of gravity " for human capital and main industries .
prices of manufacturers of industrial products in January-September of this year increased by 14.4%.
The def report is an independent assessment of the economic development of the world's states.
integration of information systems of state bodies will allow to move from the provision of individual public services to integrated services on the basis of "one-on-one treatment."
a decrease in prices was recorded for the sandbox by 1.4%.
in particular, urban planning is being improved, the land-use planning system continues to be modernized, housing affordability and efficient management of public services and infrastructure development are being actively pursued.
In addition, the seminar addressed the issues of simplifying procedures at checkpoints, fixing links to the information portal of countries, ensuring freedom of transit.
Participants of the seminar expressed special interest in explaining the single window system in world practice (implementation, institutional organization, interdepartmental coordination in implementation, etc.).
the future of Kazakhstanis is in free possession of Kazakh, Russian and English.
in general, "db" will allow to analyze the entire period of operation of the enterprise, from the opening of the enterprise to its liquidation.
the total decrease in gas supply in the gas supply regions of the country increased from 1.3% to 17.5%, saving about 5 billion tenge.
he can subtract half of his revenue without confirmation.
Currently, Kazakhstan has a tendency to attract people to large cities with consolidated economic activity.
here, probably, you need to create an information wave and show that citizens can purchase 1,2,10,15 shares through some brokers, turn to certain places, what are the prices, "said the vice speaker.
The average per capita nominal monetary income of the population in 2017 amounted to 83,053 tenge and in nominal terms compared to 2016 increased by 8.5%.
According to police proposals, most business structures establish "alarm points," surveillance cameras, engineering protection equipment, and so on.
in order to radically improve the work of law enforcement agencies and ensure the safety of citizens.
The weight system used for pooling is calculated on the basis of the previous year's household survey in terms of their expenditures.
In December 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 21,725 and decreased by 7.4% compared to the previous month.
Reform of compulsory services provided by natural monopolies and the quasi-public sector;
the Government will now approve the list of such services, which amounts to about 75, and GRP will approve and monitor their delivery.
the meeting was held via videoconference, during which the authorized territorial departments of the statistical committee on ethics asked questions and received answers to them.
The authorized body in the field of communications - the Ministry of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan - also assessed the alleged impact and effect of concluding transactions for consumers, participants and the industry as a whole.
A joint statement on behalf of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan was signed by Vice Minister Alpysov, on behalf of the Ministry of Federal Economy and Energy of the Republic of Germany, Deputy Minister Ulrich Nusbaum.
as a result of this work, appropriate response measures were taken within the framework of antitrust legislation, "said Suleimenov.
here and now we have considered systemic issues that will allow all monopolists not only to achieve a reduction in prices, but also to ensure their effective functioning.
On this day, pef became the main world platform for both high-ranking Russian and foreign officials and world business leaders.
passenger turnover amounted to 272.8 billion dkm and increased by 3.3%.
interregional migrants account for 33.3 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
interregional migrants account for 35.4 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
In addition, the deputy chairman of the Unity branch of the Kozhakhmetov Shopanula party took part in the party meeting.
Eidu supports Kazakhstan in these two areas by developing recommendations for risk assessment and management.
at the same time, most phef sessions are devoted to the development of digitalization.
As part of the control measure carried out by the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the illegal inspection of the department for monitoring the use and protection of the land of Almaty was stopped.
The EBRD and the Government support women's entrepreneurship through the Women in Business program.
The Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan on Wednesday at a plenary session of the Chamber approved in the second and final reading the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity," developed by the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
This seminar is aimed at fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure free transit within the framework of the implementation of the agreement.
social policy will be implemented by involving citizens in a full economic life.
in the top three most respected international rating agencies.
Zhodzhaev called the need to simplify customs and sanitary procedures on the Kazakh-Uzbek border, strengthen industrial cooperation between enterprises of the two countries, as well as unify requirements in the field of transit transport.
in general, the World Bank noted government reforms in the following direction:
Employed population - persons assigned within a certain short period of one week to one of the categories of "employed (paid) worker" or "self-employed worker."
The seminar resulted in recommendations on the integration of sustainable development indicators into State development programmes.
This year, measures will be taken to develop neighboring industries near large systemically important companies, "Turlybekov said.
At the end of the speech, Zhumagulov thanked the representatives of Aida for organizing a seminar that promotes the exchange of experience between Kazakhstan and Indian countries on issues of regional and urban policy.
passenger turnover amounted to 23.1 billion pkm and increased by 2.9%.
In 2017, the health authorities in the republic registered 390,262 births, including 226,847 people in urban centers, 163,415 people in rural areas.
this message determines what needs to be done to find a way to adapt and succeed in the new world, that is, in the world of the fourth industrial revolution.
* ⁾ The republic's average cost of one square meter of the total area of ​ ​ primary, clean finishing apartments.
on how much tenge each Shymkent family will save during the year after the tariff reduction, the head of the State Emergency Service department for Shymkentu Darkhan Kayynberdiev with monopolists will discuss in the plot of the TV channel "otyrar.kz"
at the same time, the execution of the budget is assigned to the akim of the rural district and its apparatus, "said A. Zhumagulov.
Following its results, further measures will be established to develop the FTP institute, including expanding the revenue base, as well as giving additional powers to effectively and independently resolve issues of local importance, "said A. Zhumagulov.
gin is the final result of the production activities of resident producers at market prices.
This year, the km continues to work on improving rehabilitation and bankruptcy procedures and plans to implement the following measures:
Support small and medium-sized businesses throughout Kazakhstan by subsidizing local and foreign consultants.
The weight system used for pooling is calculated on the basis of the previous year's household survey in terms of their expenditures.
As the head of Kazakhstan noted, there is an acceleration of wool dynamics.
In order to achieve the task of the head of state to enter the top 30 countries of the World Bank's doing business rating, the 6th package of legislative initiatives was implemented within the framework of the law.
Nevertheless, the ministry took control of this issue with the subsequent notification of entrepreneurs.
From October 10 to 12 of this year, the Institute of Economic Research jointly held a seminar-training with the participation of Singaporean experts at Nazarbayev University of the Higher School of Public Policy on the topic: "Coordination of Strategic and Budget Planning."
public receptions in the city of taraz of Zhambyl region, the city of aktau of Mangistau region, the city of kokshetau of aktobe region, the city of aktobe region, the city of Turkestan of the Turkestan region of energy management and housing and communal services of akimats of regions, departments of housing and communal services, "Atameken," party "Nұr Otan," regional council of veterans, representatives of public associations.
and in the East Kazakhstan region the volume of production corresponds to the level of last year.
UN, World Customs Organization, Steam Escap, Secretariat of the International Plant Protection Convention and representatives of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Macedonia.
all interested persons may participate in the public discussion.
The seminar was organized in order to increase the competence of specialists involved in the field of strategic and budgetary planning of state bodies.
The First Deputy Prime Minister stressed that holding such a public position is a manifestation of the high confidence of the head of state, as well as an assessment of personal, professional and business qualities.
is currently engaged in the issue of attracting the system to Kazakhstan.
to bring the agro-industrial complex to a new technological level.
This year Kazakhstan will take part in the exhibition with a large assortment of goods.
The Ministry of National Economy reports the following in this regard.
the lowest regions identified the South Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions, the size of incomes in these regions amounted to 51-67% of the average republican level.
About 700 rural districts with the participation of akims and specialists of their apparatus covered 38 districts in all 14 regions of the country. including in the Auliekol district of the Kostanay region, the Atbasar district of the Akmola region, in the Ayyrtau district of the North Kazakhstan region, in the Bayanaul district of Pavlodar region, in the Altai district of the East Kazakhstan region, in the Karkaraly district of the Karaganda region, Uygur district of Almaty region, Kurmangazinsky district, in the city of tupkaragan, Mangistau region, in the Mughalzhar district of the Aktobe region, in the Terekta district of the West Kazakhstan region, seminars were held in the Merkin district of Zhambyl region, in the Tulkubas district of Turkestan region and in the Zhanakorgan district of Kyzylorda region.
The weight system used for pooling is calculated on the basis of the previous year's household survey in terms of their expenditures.
With deep knowledge and special efforts, you have achieved great success in your professional activities. having deep knowledge and special potential , you achieve significant success in professional activities .
also one of the procedures for opening an enterprise is "printing."
today, many public servants notice their obscene deeds, especially on social networks.
Kazakhstan's position in the imd-2018 world competitiveness ranking
In Kazakhstan, 79.8% of employees employed in the order of more than the established working day * worked due to requirements set by the employer, and the main reason for self-employed (48.5% *) is to receive high wages.
and different price increases in each region.
a database of neutral regulatory measures of the Republic of Kazakhstan was presented during the seminar.
break, times
paid services
Kazakhstan's exports to Hungary increased 2.7 times and amounted to 39.2 million US dollars, while imports from Hungary to Kazakhstan grew by 18.6% and amounted to 117.3 million US dollars.
the meeting was attended by representatives of regulatory state bodies, the business community and the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
The second day of the forum was devoted to discussing the introduction of new technologies, including the "virtual warehouse" module, as well as new amendments to the law on trade.
for information, the Trade Capacity and Standards Management Committee is one of the UN intergovernmental bodies.
food prices are recorded through an elected network of trading enterprises of all forms of ownership and in urban markets in large cities of Kazakhstan.
to this end, a set of tasks has been implemented to regulate inflationary processes and strengthen the stability of public finances. to this end , a set of tasks has been implemented to regulate inflation processes and strengthen the sustainability of public finances .
Vice Minister of Madina Zhunusbekova spoke from the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Today, several transcontinental corridors pass through Kazakhstan.
at the same time, the asset of the national fund showed an increase of 0.1% to 56.5 billion US dollars.
Today, the Ministry of National Economy has worked to develop proposals to improve public policies to attract investment.
during such events, WTO participants will discuss the accession of new members to the trading system.
The difference in the percentage of respondents who noted the "growth" and "decline" of a particular indicator of the economic activity of the studied enterprise.
data for Turkmenistan and Ukraine are available on the official websites of the national statistical services of these states.
the growth of protectionist measures restricting trade, which is today relevant. crisis, e-commerce, environmental protection.
Methodological comments:
in this regard, most member countries express their political freedoms, institutional changes in relation to the above issues.
In January-November of this year, prices of manufacturers of industrial products increased by 19.8%.
A visit of the company to Kazakhstan is currently being worked out to work with local executive bodies and central state bodies.
presenting his candidacy, the Dalenov channel said that the new deputy is faced with the task of overseeing regional development issues.
Study of the implementation of State programmes, including the "five social initiatives."
The seminar was held to provide practical assistance to budget programme administrators in the qualitative development of budget programmes and to ensure maximum automation of the process.
it also provides for experience in the development and implementation of regional policies, the exchange of information, the strengthening of border cooperation and the economic development of the border zone.
better health care and a healthy nation.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 262,731, including small enterprises - 254,394 units (less than 100 people).
this seminar was held by the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Geneva branch and other international organizations and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the participation of the Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation within the framework of technical support of the member countries of the organization.
The natural growth of the population of the republic in January-February 2018 compared to January-February 2017 increased by 3.1 thousand people or 8.1% and amounted to 40.8 thousand people.
In turn, Yermek Alpysov thanked the leadership for its trust and expressed readiness to work fruitfully for the further development of the country.
2014-2017 - Head of the Department of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Atyrau region.
According to Zhakupov, the law introduced about 1000 amendments to 14 codes and 109 laws.
Thus, we expect that this institute will stimulate business in fact to equitably comply with the requirements of the law, as well as radically change the consciousness of the inspectors, changing the mentality of the activity, "said Jakupov.
real monetary incomes of the population with an increase in prices for consumer goods and services during this period increased by 7.4% compared to the previous year by 1.0%.
On July 31, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan with the participation of Vice Minister of National Economy Madina Junusbekova held a briefing for the diplomatic corps and foreign business communities to present our country's efforts to improve the performance of the World Economic Forum in the global competitiveness index.
passenger turnover amounted to 43.7 billion pkm and increased by 4.4%.
Recall that in May the head of state publicly signed a law on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
among retired workers, 77.1% were dismissed due to turnover, 3.6% due to a reduction in the number of employees or liquidation of the enterprise, and 19.3% for other reasons.
In 2018, up to 3 billion tenge will be allocated for these purposes. will be necessary.
A significant share in the positive dynamics, according to the minister, is due to the growth of livestock production by 3.9%.
interregional migrants account for 44.9 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
according to estimates, the company's share in this market is 37.5%.
Also this year, we will continue to work to eliminate barriers to mutual trade in order to implement the provisions of the reintegration agreement, improve the regulatory framework, as well as create favorable conditions for entrepreneurial activity, "the speaker said.
The natural growth of the population of the republic in January-November 2017 compared to January-November 2016 decreased by 16.9 thousand people or 6.6% and amounted to 239.8 thousand people.
the basis of the country's socio-economic successes is civil peace, interethnic and interfaith harmony, which remain our main values.
Aldash Aitzhanov, President of the Center for the Development and Protection of Competition Policy JSC, drew attention to the need for further amendments and additions to section 4 "economic competition" of the entrepreneurial code.
in the development of new construction methods, modern materials, as well as building designs and urban planning plans.
Compared to January-November 2016, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year decreased by 10.9%.
Changes in prices by sectors of the economy for 2017-2018
gkp "Turkestan" water intake
eggs, decimal
The minimum nominal wage is set for education workers - 107.9 thousand tenge, which is 38.7% lower than the average in the republic.
Within the framework of the two-day seminar-meeting, questions were explained about the main goals and tasks of the territorial organization of the country, international experience of developed states in spatial planning was discussed, as well as the tasks of state bodies, national companies, holdings and other organizations on this issue.
in defense of works designed in the form of slides, the contestants introduced the audience to the traditions of the Kazakh people, national instruments, national games, ancient weapons of the Kazakh people.
later, moreover, different services can be introduced that take into account the demand of different niche markets.
The approval of a free trade agreement with Egypt will increase the export of Kazakh products through access to the Egyptian market, simplify customs trade procedures and eliminate tariff and neutral barriers, as well as deepen cooperation in a number of priority sectors of the economy.
total savings of consumers "funds for utilities as a result of tariff reduction will amount to about 27.5 billion tenge.
primary statistical data of the national statistical observations on the sample group of exporting, importing enterprises and the national statistical observation of prices by selected types of products (form 1-c (export, import), mutual trade in goods with member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (form 1-c) and customs statistics are used for calculation.
a closure policy is also being developed.
According to the results of inspections, an administrative case was instituted against 4 residents with the imposition of an administrative fine of 6,493 tenge, a fine of 5 thousand tenge, "said E. Ibrikhanov.
opening the first meeting of the council, the Dalen channel noted the measures taken by the ministry to effectively implement the instructions of the first president - the head of state at the XVIII Congress of the Nurotan party to modernize rural territories.
a conceptual change in the system of state control and supervision is also planned.
the main issues of the population's appeal during this period related to tariff formation in the field of electricity, heat and water supply, the procedure for calculating heat charges in connection with the change in tariffs and recalculation of general housing accounting devices, as well as consumer protection, cellular communications, telecommunications and others.
territorial divisions of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights recalculated the cost of heat supply services in all regions of Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh delegation at SPIEF was headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. Vice Minister of Zhaslan Madiyev took part from the Ministry of National Economy.
tariffs for the transportation of goods by all modes of transport increased by 0.6%, tariffs for postal, courier and communications services to legal entities remained unchanged.
In turn, this index is an important indicator of the level of investment attractiveness in the field of services, which are trusted by many countries, in international negotiations.
gasoline, million tons
goods and Services
in this regard, the First Vice-Minister under the Ministry is planning to create a permanent investment headquarters headed by Dalen.
the new technological position radically changes how we work, how we realize civil rights, how we raise our children.
A significant share in turnover falls on the ICC or the shares of entities of the quasi-state sphere, "the minister said.
however, the preparations not carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection must be carried out carefully.
The event was opened by Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev and General Director of the Republic Robert Azevedo.
in addition, Kazakhstan has not imposed any ban on the raw materials necessary for the import of sugar and its production.
it is important that the entire agricultural complex solve this problem radically.
export - total
vocal and dance groups of the city spoke for veterans, to complete the meeting they were awarded a solemn hotel.
passenger turnover amounted to 281.5 billion dkm and increased by 3.2%.
T.Suleimenov urged the heads of regions to make a "clear long-term forecast for each new project in order to focus on an effective export character."
Well Fixing Engineer (Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production)
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship Askar Asanovich Basenbayev at the end of the forum gave his opinion on the established partnership practice of the state and business.
tobacco and iron and steel production also declined.
The seminar focused on the implementation by the world's member States of commitments to implement specific articles of agreement (environment) on trade facilitation, opportunities and cooperation of the national committees of Central Asian countries.
As the director of the department noted, this work will be carried out on an ongoing basis in GRP.
for example, in Almaty region, the share of imported goods amounted to 58.6%, and goods purchased within the region 36.9%.
The head of the department thanked Ruslan Dalenov for his joint fruitful work and wished him success in further professional activities.
On July 31, 2018, at the Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan site, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the redistribution of powers between levels of state administration," developed by the president together with representatives of non-governmental organizations of the city of Astana (hereinafter - uem) (hereinafter - the bill).
The Ministry of National Economy approved an updated anti-corruption plan in the department.
this will attract the population to solve issues of local importance.
one rule of law, as well as reducing business costs, identifying and eliminating rules that prevent competition.
in different years in the Republic of Kazakhstan in the police agency, the agency for economic and corruption crimes, the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Association of Insurers of Kazakhstan expressed concern about the restriction of state participation in regulatory activities.
according to the analysis of the department, the quality of water supply services, sewerage of the population, the tariff for irrigated water, the forced shutdown of water supply services during emergency recovery work, payment of drinking water, the repeated collection of money for the receipt when the bill receipt is lost, an increase in the norm for electric energy consumption from 70 kw/h by 100-150 kw/h and other issues.
despite the decrease in position in the ranking, positive trends are observed in two factors.
driver of machines and mechanisms of internal ponds (fisheries and aquaculture)
However, according to him, the final placement period will be determined taking into account the financial situation of companies, the macroeconomic situation, world prices for raw materials.
at the same time, the summit becomes a dialogue platform for discussing conceptual world ideas.
The Committee is an effective dialogue platform for discussing approaches and further implementation of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu in strategically important areas.
interregional migrants account for 33.8 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
The conference was attended by the management of the committee on regulation of natural monopolies, protection of competition and consumer rights of the ministry, deputy akims of regions, cities of Astana, Almaty and Shymkent, heads of departments of the committee, as well as heads of departments and departments in the field of housing and communal services.
our long-term goals remain unchanged.
The competence of the Tariff Policy Council includes:
therefore, an alternative mechanism without collateral, like the iro, bond issue, is fully viable, completely duplicated and commercially convenient.
Changes in prices by sectors of the economy for 2017-2018
including:
Speaking about measures to improve the country's GIC, Suleimenov also reported on the creation of a competitiveness council under the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the inclusion of measures to improve the def-ji in the strategic plan for the development of state bodies, the approval of def-ji indicators as Cree for heads of state bodies, the adoption of a plan of government measures to improve the def-ji indicators.
On the basis of the palaces of schoolchildren of all regions, it is necessary to create a network of children's technology parks and business incubators with all the necessary infrastructure, including computers, laboratories and 3D printers.
in addition, according to this code, entrepreneurs receive the goods "double-glazed," which obliges the entrepreneur to pay the disposal fee.
the first vice minister of the ministry, Ruslan Dalen, and the executive secretary of the Zhumabeks also received the Order of Honor.
changes in prices and tariffs across sectors of the economy
According to the Vice Minister, the amendments to the law are aimed at reducing business costs, stimulating duty-free payment, improving judicial relations between business and state structures, strengthening the activities of the antimonopoly body, improving tax conditions, as well as simplifying customs administration.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Population has shown irresponsibility in this case and considered it in the same form.
in general, according to him, the bill introduced about 1000 amendments to 13 codes and 100 laws.
At the annual meeting, as Vice-Chairman of the Timur Suleimen, he delivered a welcoming speech, as well as a moderator at the session "Communication with Central Asia: Challenges and Opportunities."
as a result of the adoption of the law, the system of state control and supervision will radically change.
At the ceremony, the ministry's employees were awarded state and departmental awards for their significant contribution to the development of the country's economy, conscientious and impeccable public service.
Heads of natural monopoly entities, in particular the Kyzylordinateploelectric center, Water Resources Marketing LLP, Capital Reg, made reports on infrastructure modernization and implementation of investment program measures, and a representative of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Kazakhstan - on improving the way of tariff formation and attracting investments.
they relate to the creation of a public council, the introduction of the institute of external technical audit for the implementation of investment programs, as well as the financing of public associations that we have, "the minister said.
In addition, the antimonopoly committee together with Kegok JSC decided to exclude the tariff increase from January 1, 2019 and leave it at the current level of 2.4 tenge/kvz.
The Central Communications Service held a press conference on reforms in the system of state control and supervision, as well as measures taken to protect business rights.
The Kazakh delegation presented a report on the work carried out with the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with the recommendations on the study of regulatory and procedural barriers to bidding.
in addition, Kazakhstan ranks seventh in terms of the cost of opening a business and 11th in terms of resolving conflicts of interest.
In particular, the two countries intend to cooperate in the field of peaceful nuclear research, nuclear technology, radiation protection, as well as the exchange of training and experience in these areas.
dear compatriots!
the development of their own ecosystem by digital and other innovative solution developers is becoming a critical issue.
The Strategic Council is being held at a new stage of national development within the framework of the memorandum of understanding on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and UNDP, which consists of representatives of the Government and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The entrepreneurial code is convenient for entrepreneurs, it should answer as much as possible questions arising during the production process, at least the regulatory project should correspond to the "life" flow of business, "said the Aslanbek Dzhakupov.
the meeting was attended by state bodies, the Atameken NPP, the Damu Entrepreneurship Development Fund, the Kazagro NUH and public organizations, as well as representatives of the garden.
For 27 years, annual emissions of pollutants from stationary sources into the air in 1990 have decreased to 4,649,9 thousand tons, in 2017 to 2,357,8 thousand tons or 2 times.
As a result, the rights and interests of entrepreneurs will be protected during their interaction with subjects of natural monopolies and the quasi-state sphere, the vice minister said.
in addition, the stabilization of tenge will continue, as well as the de-dollarization of the economy as a result of various measures taken by the crab.
on the quality of water supply services, sewerage rates, irrigated water, forced disconnection from water supply services during emergency recovery work, receipt of a fee for drinking water, repeated collection of funds for a receipt in case of loss of an invoice, increase in the standard of electricity consumption to 70 kw/h 100-150 kw/h and other issues.
investment dynamics outstrip GDP growth.
changes in prices and tariffs across sectors of the economy
in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Statistics": clarification of the understandable part; Approval of respondents' rights to provide primary statistics in alternative ways; Changes have been made to introduce new powers.
So, in 2017, five meetings of the state commission were held, at which a decision was made on the way and share of the implementation of 57 organizations, 19 of which are on the list of priority.
and plans for further work, including legislative changes.
last week the sixth meeting of the Kazakh-Hungarian intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation was held in Budapest.
Representatives of investors spoke about new initiatives and directions for improving investment policy by expanding the functions of the ministry, announced work plans for the upcoming period to improve the investment climate in the country.
The revision of the calculation methodology for primary education coverage has led to improvements in "health" and "primary education."
The Ministry of National Economy, on the basis of all relevant questions and proposals based on the results of the seminars, will compile collections with questions and answers, which will be distributed to the akims of all rural districts of the republic.
Children 0-13 years old
that is, this competence gives us the right to verify that any state body exercises state control over entrepreneurs, provides permitting and permitting procedures, and complies with the procedure for providing state support measures.
Following the meeting, the members of the expert group made relevant recommendations to the Ministries of Investment and Development and Energy.
the head of the tax and legal activities group pricewaterhouse coopers reported on the existing business problems related to the administration of value added.
The experts also considered the issues of assessing the application of standards in the field of phytosanitary, export and import regulation system, phytosanitary potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to facilitate trade and ensure safety.
import - total
flour, million tons
employees of the Ministry of Nurtazin, a. baubekov, v. hismatulin, a. kusainova, e. sarsenbay, s. Yesdauletova, s. Ertaev, d. Khamzin, Kamieva, b. alimbayeva, m. Baekeev, a. Amanbaev and others naumkin won the medal "For Valiant Labor."
The World Bank noted Kazakhstan among the countries that carried out regulatory reforms within the framework of indicators of ease of doing business more than a third in 2017-2018.
during the meeting, elections were held for the bureau of the primary party organization, the chairman and deputy chairman, as well as delegates to the Unity branch conference.
payment for travel by an inner-city bus - by 3.1%, by an intercity bus, by passenger rail went up by 2.8%, and by air - by 2.2%.
provision of social support measures for the project is carried out in paper form, is it planned to provide this state service in electronic form?
on the market, it was found that the white companies "Kazakhtelecom" and "mobile telcom-service," representing the brands "altel" and "tele2," are not part of the same group of persons, since the controlling stake in this partnership (50.52%) belongs to the Swedish company "tele2 ab."
as a result of the adoption of the law, the system of state control and supervision will radically change.
Significant improvements in the rating are observed by the "institutions" factor, which rose from 12th position to 61st and by the "goods market" factor, which rose from 10th position to 57th position.
Kazakhstan simplified the conduct of international trade through the introduction of the electronic system of customs declaration-1 and the reduction of customs administrative duties.
in turn, it is the institution of "preliminary control" that is focused on the "identification and correction" policy, which will allow building partnerships between business and the state.
here, apparently, we, as the ministry and the national bank, need to implement an information policy on the full competitiveness of these two instruments.
Prime Minister Bakytzhan sagintayev addressed the participants of the event with a welcoming speech.
smart cities for a smart nation.
To do this, the government and akims need to carry out a wide-ranging explanatory work.
in particular, the effectiveness of the policies and measures being developed and implemented, as well as their profitability, depend on the degree of limitation, "said the vice minister.
The akims also noted that despite the increase in responsibility and volume of work, their interest in the development of entrepreneurship, increasing tax discipline, determining additional reserves to replenish the budget of local self-government is increasing.
members of the coordination and public council - member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Altai, chairman of the association in the field of education, public figure M. Abenov, chairman of the board of the association of small and medium-sized businesses "Country-support" a. Abubakirov, Head of the Office of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in Kazakhstan, Secretary of the Nurotan Party. terenchenko, senior expert of the "Institute of Economic Research" of t. Bespalins, public figures l. sculpture, with. Tungyshbekov, blogger fedors and others.
The World Economic Forum (davos summit) is the largest international non-governmental organization headquartered in Geneva.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan holds a public discussion in the "on-line" mode on the issue of conducting an analysis of the regulatory impact on the removal from licensing of brokerage and dealer activities in the sphere of the commodity exchange through voluntary self-regulation and accreditation of brokers and dealers on commodity exchanges.
In May 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 22,355 and increased by 1.5% compared to the previous month.
in addition, this transparency mechanism will allow parties to exchange notifications of subsidies and trade measures, information on domestic regulation in the trade sphere.
In 1996-2011, he held senior positions in the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the regulation of natural monopolies and the protection of competition.
The hall was attended by representatives of a number of central departments, the public, non-governmental organizations, entrepreneurs and gardeners.
Teenagers 14-17 years old
tariffs for the transportation of goods by all modes of transport increased by 1.4%, and postal and courier tariffs decreased by 0.2% for legal entities.
Vice Minister of Aybatyr Zhumagulov spoke from the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
support and facilitation of cooperation between Kazakhstan border zones and Russian regions within the goals of the Kazakhstan-Russia border cooperation program for 2020-2025; the creation of a favourable territory for the life, work and education of future generations; cooperation and exchange of information on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening the competitiveness of border local production, increasing the level of employment of the border population, as well as the implementation of measures for the development of interregional cooperation.
Employed population - persons assigned within a certain short period of one week to one of the categories of "employed (paid) worker" or "self-employed worker."
The event organized by the World Bank together with the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan is based on the presentation of the report of the results of the study "Subnational rating" doing business. "
I believe it is important that the work of the council open up a solid basis for further partnership, "B.Amreev said.
in general, negotiations are aimed at liberalizing mutual trade between eurozone member states and the Egyptians.
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan heard the report of the largest subjects of natural monopolies in the timur suleimen.
confirmation of registration of a legal entity.
During the forum, industry leaders together with the authorities discussed possible scenarios for the development of the retail market in Kazakhstan in the context of a new reality for the development of fair competition and the creation of more favorable conditions for increasing efficiency in the interests of the end consumer.
The best world experience shows that in the implementation of regional policy, attention should be paid to urbanization and the development of the urban environment, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
reforms and the state of business in Kazakhstan are evaluated by independent experts of the World Bank.
Kazakhstan Economy Center is an analytical and analytical center for the development of public-private partnership of a new format.
we support such young people.
The average per capita nominal cash income of the population in May 2018 was estimated at 84,206 tenge, which is 5.1% higher than in May 2017, real cash income for this period decreased by 1.1%.
a new phase of technological and infrastructure development.
From January 1, 2020, it is planned to introduce 4 budget levels in the remaining 1,334 villages.
In March 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 16,764, which is 5.6% less compared to the previous month.
The youth unemployment rate at ⁾ 15-28 years old was 3.8%.
the discussion was attended by top managers of large retail chains, distributors, manufacturers.
That is, now the purpose of the audit is not to hold the entrepreneur accountable, but to assist and advise on preventing violations of the requirements of the law, "said the Aslanbek Dzhakupov.
The government should adopt a set of measures, including the simplification of visa issues, the development of infrastructure and the removal of barriers in the field of tourism.
On December 14, 2018, the Ministry of Energy decided to reduce wholesale electricity prices at the stations from November 1, 2019.
I would like to recall that the first privatization carried out in the first years of independence not only helped to create the basis of the market economy as a whole, but also helped the state to get out of a difficult period by reducing spending, budget spending during the same difficult period and transferred this balance to the market situation. i would like to recall that , in fact , the first privatization , held at the dawn of independence , it then helped not only to create the basis of a market economy , but also helped the state survive in those difficult conditions with the fact that it cut costs , budget expenditures and transferred these balances in market conditions .
Turkestan water supply
citizens, without leaving home, will be able to pass a career guidance test, learn about training courses and state support measures, and find an interesting job for themselves.
Within the framework of the discussion, attention was paid to the issue of improving the strategic planning system, taking into account the experience of international modernization and digitalization in such areas as energy, climate, city management and infrastructure.
Children 0-13 years old
The average per capita nominal cash income of the population in July 2018 was estimated at 85036 tenge, which is 4.7% higher than in July 2017, and real cash income for this period decreased by 1.1%.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan aibatyr Zhumagulov spoke at the plenary session of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Development of the Business Environment and Regulation of Trade Activities."
at this stage, new measures are being taken on important indicators of the doing business rating and in the future they will be continued sequentially.
Under the chairmanship of the Vice-Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin, a regular meeting was held with the heads of the committee on regulation of natural monopolies, protection of competition and consumer rights and its territorial divisions.
paid services
the deeper politicization of economic processes and the persistence of geopolitical tensions create additional risks and increase instability in the global economy.
as a result, the savings of the population as a whole for electricity services will amount to about 7.8 billion tenge.
Today in Astana, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan organized a seminar-training "Integration of indicators of sustainable development in the process of strategic planning" together with the scientific and educational center "Green Academy" with the support of the UN in Kazakhstan.
for the state financial sub-factor there is a decrease from 4th to 19th place.
it is important to stimulate business to invest in green technologies.
Timur Suleimenov invited the company to take part in the implementation of Kazakhstan social projects.
Completing his report, the Dalenov channel noted that according to the project "village - cradle of the country" the repair, construction and reconstruction of social and engineering infrastructure in promising villages is purposefully carried out.
in addition, the main solution to such a problematic issue as the "outflow of sea heads."
Over the past 27 years, 36 countries have joined the WTO, including many countries in the Eurasian region.
the law excludes 108 from 20 areas and 544 control services from 114 existing ones, as well as excludes articles under 47 articles of the Code of Administrative Offenses and the competence of authorized bodies to initiate administrative cases.
So, at the beginning of 2018, this figure amounted to 65.7 legal entities per 1000 people.
price index in construction
Director of the Department of Enterprise Development Aslanbek Zhakupov spoke from the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
The forum began with a speech by Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov, who noted that on May 24 of this year, the head of state publicly signed a law on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
work on our part began as a whole with an analysis of the state of control and supervision activities. our work was started with an analysis of the state of control and supervisory activity in general .
Teenagers 14-17 years old
million tons, including oil, gas condensate
million tons, including oil, gas condensate
The meeting was attended by representatives of regulatory state bodies, the business community, the Atameken national chamber of entrepreneurs, the association of restaurateurs of Kazakhstan, the association of tobacco and alcohol producers.
Speaking about the upcoming new five-year plan of industrialization, the Minister noted that special attention is paid to the manufacturing industry.
The corresponding information system was introduced in the GOBMP on July 1 of this year.
CIS reference:
courier (public administration and defense; compulsory social security
Also today, we have completed negotiations on free trade agreements with Iran and on trade and economic cooperation with China.
in addition, according to him, the general reduction in budget spending on the yzhn will contribute to easing inflationary pressure.
In June 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 23,840 and increased by 6.6% compared to the previous month.
The parties noted the importance of holding such bilateral meetings, as well as discussed the upcoming working events before the end of this year.
The total amount of return of funds to the population for heat supply services for the heating period of 2017-2018 amounted to 1,012,720,,38 thousand tenge, including VAT.
the committee develops and oversees international norms and standards, procedures and best practices, which reduces the costs associated with export and import processes, improves efficiency, predictability and transparency, trade procedures, movement of goods and services.
Last year, the ministry developed systemic measures to deregulate business, aimed at reducing administrative pressure on business and radically improving the conditions for entrepreneurial activity.
import - total
Children 0-13 years old
Information tools have been developed and systematized.
housing construction and social facilities, engineering infrastructure, urban development, and a dramatic improvement in the quality of life in cities should develop at a faster pace.
high investment and consumer demand, as well as production activity in the main sectors of the economy, have become the main factors in economic growth.
In 2003-2008, he worked as the chief expert in the department of legislation and legal expertise of the State Legal Administration of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of the sector of the department of legislation and legal expertise.
The head of the department told reporters that the main directions of the ministry at this stage are the development of entrepreneurship in the country, the regulation of prices and tariffs, the development of regions.
* preliminary data
prices of food products for two months of the current year (2019
The enterprise reliability index of trading enterprises is calculated as a percentage as the arithmetic average of the "balances" of the assessment of the actual level of the economic situation and stock in the warehouse (the latter with the opposite sign), as well as the expected changes in the economic situation.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the "Institute of Economic Research" holds meetings of experts of the World Bank with state bodies and local executive bodies to discuss the results of data collection to study the subnational rating "doing business" in Kazakhstan.
it will explore barriers to trade in services.
Wage differentiation by profession (position) and service group is also established in the regional context.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Madina Zhunusbekova, opening the session, noted that the activities of the United Nations and the goal of sustainable development of the couple strengthen the international partnership, create a solid basis for economic and social growth, comfortable life of future generations.
In addition, it was presented on the ESCAP marginal agreement on the facilitation of paperless border trade in the Asia-Pacific region and invited to consider the possibility of the Republic of Kazakhstan joining this agreement.
in this regard, in the press center of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan next year we can expect a reduction in tariffs for utility services to the population in which regions and in which sectors.
the updated summit will be held in the congress center "expo" and hilton capital.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in accordance with international standards is formed taking into account surcharges, allowances, remuneration, as well as taxes and other deductions (income tax, mandatory pension contributions).
The purpose of the competition is to implement the State program for the development and functioning of languages ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2019, to identify and support public servants who speak the state language.
and to participate in improving investment legislation and providing technical assistance for future work.
high-quality economic growth
he described in detail the ongoing system reforms aimed at improving the business climate, improving control and supervisory services, eliminating administrative barriers, reducing the permit system and reducing business transaction costs.
As you know, Pavlodar region is an industrially and economically developed region in Kazakhstan, producing 4.5% of gin in the country.
A long-term strategy for the development of the country until 2050 is being implemented.
The Commission is an important tool for the development of bilateral relations in the trade and economic sphere.
According to the Vice Minister, extensive explanatory work was also carried out.
dear Kazakhstanis!
dear Kazakhstanis!
The American side positively assessed the visit of the Kazakh delegation and expressed confidence in the further deepening of trade and economic cooperation between our countries.
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov presented to the staff of the Ministry the newly appointed Vice Minister of Aset Irgaliyev.
the government should take business out of the shadows and create a new package of systemic measures aimed at supporting it.
32,301 respondents aged 10 years and older participated in the study.
Methodological comments:
regulation is tightening, that in general and in general, the most correct, loan prices will rise.
According to the minister, within the framework of the bill, the system of state control and collection will be conceptually changed, that is, instead of a partial inspection, a new institution of preliminary control will be introduced.
ridding bank portfolios of "bad" loans.
As the Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov noted, now the policy of conducting inspections is created to "identify and punish," while the activity of the inspector was evaluated precisely by the number of violations and penalties identified.
the exchange of views and recent scientific and practical achievements will make it possible to develop solutions and practical proposals effective for the world and Kazakhstan.
in Zhambyl region the value was 111.2 thousand tenge, which is 31.7% lower than the national average.
- Anti-corruption headquarters in the Ministry chaired by the Minister;
however, 26 of the 53 audits have now been completed.
Since 2015, criminal liability of police officers has been introduced for failing to register reports of citizens about offenses and crimes (Article 433 of the Criminal Code).
in general, despite positive changes in the economy, production activity in certain regions remains in the reverse zone. despite the positive changes in the economy as a whole , in some regions , production activity remains in the negative zone .
this type of entrepreneurship is practically absent in Kazakhstan, but in this regard, the study of international experience shows that in Europe and Kazakhstan for decades the "wheeled business" has been developing at a good pace.
In November 2018, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 23,460 and decreased by 14% compared to the previous month.
to provide business, the government subsidizes loan rates.
stable forecast shows the expectations of experts that the state and the external balance sheet will remain stable in the next two years.
digital program of Kazakhstan.
issues of development of financial services through the Internet and credit risk management and banking insurance were also discussed.
The Republic of Kazakhstan is the largest landlocked country, and the implementation of transit potential will ensure the effective integration of the country into the world economic system.
in Turkestan region the value was 109.7 thousand tenge, which is 37.7% lower than the national average.
The bill reforms state control and supervision activities, including the reduction of 28 out of 132 areas of control and supervision due to ambivalence and inefficiency; the exception of 544 control services of state bodies that are not related to the threat to the security of the state and the consumer, 137 provides for a reduction in the timing of inspections, the deputy said at a plenary meeting.
- personal pages of heads of territorial subdivisions of antitrust and statistical agencies in the social network.
The head of state always serves as an example of business youth with an active life position.
we implemented constitutional reform and began the third modernization of our country.
In addition, the First Vice Minister of National Economy noted that the forum plans to sign a number of important agreements between states, cities and companies.
According to the minister, the monopolists did not hide their problems.
During the discussion, the reasons for these problems were identified and recommendations were made to solve them.
production of coal and lignite also decreased, and production of tobacco products and other vehicles decreased.
In February 2019, the number of registered home purchase and sale transactions amounted to 20,040, and compared to the previous month, it increased by 0.8%.
Timur Suleimen reported to the head of state on the results of economic development achieved in the first quarter of this year and on the impact of global processes on our economy.
At the forum, the Kazakh delegation held several meetings, at which it noted that "the Eurasian Economic Union.
It is necessary to choose a settlement in the territory of rural areas of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Children 0-13 years old
Teenagers 14-17 years old
in Almaty - 29.6 years, in Astana - 29.4 years.
The speaker also noted new trends in state, including regional policy, based on best international practice.
Head of Organization
Since the beginning of this year 414.5 thousand people have been employed.
total savings of consumer funds will amount to about 14.5 billion tenge for electricity services.
our goal is to systematically reform, given the tough cross-national investment competition, and not a place in the ranking. we are not chasing a place in the ranking , but systematically reforming , taking into account the tough cross-country competition for investment .
as part of these control measures, we will monitor compliance by state bodies with the requirements of the law, and most importantly, the observance of the rights of business entities.
the main menu of mobile institutions, as a rule, consists of common types of dishes (hot dogs, pizza and other quick-cooked dishes), hot and cold drinks.
The regular meeting of the public council of the ministry is scheduled for the end of March and the beginning of April this year.
relying on good-neighbourly and related relations between our peoples, in the future we will be able to achieve a high level of good on the dialogue platform of the council, "said Deputy Minister of National Economy Zhaslan Madiyev.
in his welcoming speech, the Minister noted the important role of the first President of the country N. Nazarbayev in the formation and development of the city as the capital of a young state.
raising its rating by 8 positions compared to the previous year in accordance with the results of the World Bank's doing business 2019 rating of October 31, 2018,
The National Agency for Technological Development held a press conference on the work of the commission on the business incubation program.
production of food products, tobacco products, oil refining products, chemical industry products, rubber and plastic products, metallurgical industry and production of mechanical engineering products.
It also provides for reducing the costs of entrepreneurs for video production in various areas, such as technical, environmental, antimonopoly regulation, land relations, and a natural monopoly; improving the business climate in the country by creating favorable conditions for the development of fair competition without threatening the interests of society and ensuring national security.
in addition, 117 double and non-threat-related threats to the security of the State and the consumer are excluded from the 544 monitoring and supervisory services of State bodies by re-checking and optimizing their staffing levels.
the development of our homeland is due to the fact that everyone meets the new requirements of the "digital age."
also an important part of the work is the formation of a scientific base and the development of personnel potential.
engineer for highly paid technical supervision at crude oil and natural gas production enterprises (754 thousand tenge), drilling engineer (drilling works) (854 thousand tenge) and well fixing engineer (1,844 thousand tenge).
the change in methodology is caused by the influence of the new economic reality after the global economic crisis, the fourth industrial revolution and new empirical data.
The main executive body of the CIS, which implements agreements in the field of economics adopted within the framework of the economic council.
data for Turkmenistan, Uzbeks and Ukraine are available on the official websites of the national statistical services of these states.
As you know, since November 12, 2018, work has been organized in all regions to improve feedback to the population, according to the results of which 102 public receptions were held on problematic issues in the field of housing and communal services in the media, akimats, with the participation of the Atameken National Board of Entrepreneurs, the Nұr Otan Party, public associations and other interested bodies, in which 2,791 people took part.
The commission makes a decision on the basis of the following criteria: the number of producers of business incubators implementing industrial and innovative projects; number of projects ready for incubation; logistical equipment; preparation of essays and interviews with representatives of the business incubator.
that is, in fact, the amount of tax will be reduced by 10 times from 2,583 tenge to 258 tenge, wages will increase by an additional 2,325 tenge.
production of food products, tobacco products, oil refining products, chemical industry products, rubber and plastic products, metallurgical industry and mechanical engineering products.
the law is developed taking into account the current policy to regulate and reduce business costs, eliminate administrative barriers and stimulate the development of entrepreneurship.
the control and supervisory burden on the business will be significantly reduced, since out of 114 areas of control, 20 were eliminated due to duality and inefficiency in implementation, 108 out of 544 control services were reduced.
this meeting demonstrated business concern in improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
a specific proposal was prepared to determine the compliance of the EAEU Treaty with rules and regulations, as well as information provided to WTO member states on the subject of this treaty, the Eurasian Union's foreign trade regime in trade with third countries and the degree of integration of EAEU member states.
this practice should be extended to all medical institutions of higher education.
A regular meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship was held in the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the chairmanship of the Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of Aslanbek Zhakupov.
The meeting was attended by representatives of public associations, Almaty maslikhat, akimat and utilities.
more than two years have passed since the work of the council of the new format and the introduction of the institute of ethics commissioners.
Further development of resource capacity.
Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Ruslan Dalenov at a press conference in the government reported on the work carried out by the department as part of the implementation of the provisions of the law "On Improving the Regulation of Entrepreneurial Activity."
at the initiative of the atameken, the application of Nick-oil LLP for the payment of recycling fees for glass was considered.
passenger travel by air fell in price by 7.9%, by rail - by 4.2%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of strategic planning and forecasting during the development and implementation of state programs.
According to Dr. Dalenov, the forecast scheme determines the development strategy of the regions.
in January-September, the average monthly salary increased to 158.2 thousand tenge.
The Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan presented a draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Issues of State Statistics" at a parliamentary meeting.
in the field of construction, the principle of a "single window" is being improved in relation to the environmental examination of projects as part of a comprehensive non-departmental examination of the construction project.
primary statistical data of national statistical observations on the sample group of exporting, importing enterprises and the national statistical observation of prices on selected products (form 1-c (export, import)), mutual trade in goods with member States of the Eurasian Economic Union (form 1-c) and customs statistics are used to calculate price indices.
Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan aslanbek zhakupov, speaking at the event with an introductory speech, drew attention to the results of the implementation of the 3rd anniversary of the business code.
today's conversation has helped us to be very responsible, comprehensive about this issue, taking into account this, to determine ways to solve the problem. today 's conversation has helped us to approach this very responsibly , in detail and , on this basis , to identify ways to resolve these issues .
aset irgaliyev received a phd degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science (London, UK).
according to the data given by the speaker, state budget investments are planned in the course of the goals and priority areas of such state programs as the development of regions, the development of the "bright land," education.
Head of the Department of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kazakhstan Federation of Sports and Combat Sambo in Almaty region congratulates the kenzhebekov ruslan on his victory at the World Sambo Championship and wishes him to achieve further victories in the international arena.
now the tax inspection act should contain the relevant evidence, "Dalenov said.
Speaking about the development of regions, the head of the department noted an increase in the level of urbanization, central water supply to urban settlements.
and from next year, the personal budget will be introduced everywhere.
Senators also held meetings with cram (Republican, head of the banking committee), K. van hollen and other menendez (democrats) aimed at obtaining information on the current situation, reforms and international relations in Kazakhstan.
transport of goods (without pipeline transport)
The speakers were the Director of the Department of State Support for Entrepreneurship of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan Genghis Akhmetov, the Director of the White Technology Commercialization Center "Tdua" nurlan Baijenov, as well as members of the near-abroad commissions Oleg Kondrashev (Russia), Mikhail tent (Belarus).
reporting to the participants of the session on the main directions of the country's policy on the formation of a favorable business climate and the elimination of administrative barriers and excessive regulatory burden on business, the Head of the Republic of Kazakhstan presents the main principles of promoting social responsibility of entrepreneurship and limited state participation in entrepreneurial activities, as well as the role of the "atameken," which is a bridge in establishing relations between the state and business.
the adoption of the bill does not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences and does not require additional expenditures from the state budget.
Timur Suleimen and Deputy Prime Minister of Hungary - K.E. The Minister spoke and opened the second meeting of the Kazakh-Hungarian Business Council in Budapest.
The head of Kazakhstan also named the main national priorities in the direction of achieving economic growth.
in this regard, the expert group of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan proposed to exclude fiberglass from the list of products including expanded obligations of manufacturers.
the country needed a new quality of development.
therefore, there is no reason to talk about the shortage of these products and the increase in prices for them.
Ways of continued cooperation on trade facilitation among member States were also considered.
food prices last month increased by 1.3%, non-food prices - by 0.3%, and paid services decreased by 0.2%.
It involves the introduction of a new modern format for working with the population.
the priority direction of the ministry is the development of entrepreneurship in the country, the regulation of prices and tariffs, the development of regions.
the agreement will increase the level of protection of the rights and interests of consumers and their personal data and provide the basis for the development of paperless trade in the field of innovation.
During the meeting with Commerce Minister W. Rros, a wide range of issues of trade and economic cooperation was discussed.
The forecast of "stable" Kazakhstan as a whole stabilized the economy, was carried out in response to the oil exchange rate weakening, as well as the available forecast. the presence of a buffer indicates a positive assessment of experts for the government event.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Local Government and Self-Government in the Republic of Kazakhstan" has been clarified on the maintenance of economic accounting.
the calculation of the restrictive index of trade in services is one of the conditions for Kazakhstan to join the Eidu Trade Committee, which is one of the main conditions for Eidu.
we are talking about the adoption of a bill on natural monopolies. "
The Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a solemn meeting dedicated to the celebration of the Day of the First President.
the nominal wage index for the corresponding quarter of last year amounted to 107.5%, and the real wage index - 102.1%.
the nominal wage index for the corresponding quarter of last year amounted to 108.5%, and the real wage index - 102.2%.
food products, oil refining, pharmaceuticals, metallurgical industry and production of mechanical engineering products.
subject to import (raw materials and materials), as well as sales turnover of aik products are exempt from VAT.
As Baghdad Amreev noted in his speech, this is the ninth meeting organized by member states and a high opportunity to strengthen the political and trade and economic ties of Turkic-speaking states.
The forum was also attended by the speakers of the round table on accession to the WTO, which was held in the capital of Kazakhstan over the previous two days.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in the second quarter of 2018 amounted to 162,751 tenge.
the agreement is aimed at liberalizing trade in services and attracting investment between Kazakhstan and Singapore.
The experiences of a number of countries, including Singapore and Aidu, were reviewed in the form of a brief overview with the strategic planning and budget process.
certificate: in addition to the leadership of the ministry, the public council of the family includes a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karakusova, chairman of the board of the Association of Taxpayers of Kazakhstan J. Ertilesova, chairman of the board of trustees of the Association of Economists of Kazakhstan, president of the association of legal entities of the National Association of Construction Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Ermukhanov, representatives of the civil industry a.dunayeva
The Government pays particular attention to improving the business environment.
- Digitalization of the Ministry's services to entrepreneurs, including the State's entrepreneurship support programme;
During the meeting, issues of reducing tariffs for the services of natural monopolies and the socially significant market in the field of housing and communal services (water, heat supply, gas supply, electricity) were discussed, as well as issues of revising prices and tariffs for peak services, bus, trolleybus and tram transportation, garbage collection, elevator services.
Vice Minister of Aybatyr Zhumagulov reported on the work of the Ministry for the Development of Local Self-Government.
According to the head of Kazakhstan, the world economy, despite the expected growth, is still far from inclusive development.
During the discussion, the possibility of introducing a progressive tax, providing Kazakhstanis with housing under the 7-20-25 initiative, refinancing mortgage loans, the banking system and gas supply of the regions were discussed.
a memorandum is not an international treaty and does not create rights and obligations governed by international norms for their parties.
In addition, I instruct from July 1, 2018 to introduce an additional state allowance for parents raising adult disabled people of the first group since childhood.
Representatives of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan presented the current state of development of electronic commerce in the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislative regulation and prospects for its further development.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan.
/ official statistical information/socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Today, employees of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the citywide subbotnik as part of the ecological month for the improvement of the capital and cleaning of the city.
these initiatives take into account the ban on requesting printing from a business, simplifying the procedure for issuing a certificate of origin of goods during export, the introduction of factoring and financial leasing facilities for bankruptcy and rehabilitation procedures, as well as improving the single window principle in the construction industry.
The meeting was attended by representatives of regulatory state bodies, the business community, the chamber of expert organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The implementation of the initiative will also affect such important sectors of the economy as construction, production of building materials, services and trade.
The Trade Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation launched an updated version of the kaztrade.ru website.
At the end of the forum, the group of Ergaliyev noted that regional integration and cooperation play an important role in the development of our country's economy.
the department carried out public acceptance of citizens in the field of public services in the cities of Shymkent, Kentau, Turkestan, as well as in the Sairam, Saryagash and Maktaral regions.
- Identification and removal of competition barriers;
in different years, he held senior positions in the public administration system.
they assist enterprises in choosing a development strategy, developing a business plan, feasibility study, research of the target market, development of a new brand, creation of a system for effective personnel management, automation of financial accounting and production, implementation of a quality management system and preparation for obtaining international certificates, etc.
For comparison, in Kazakhstan there are about 15 enterprises for the production of confectionery products (excluding confectionery enterprises producing perishable products (cake, cakes)) and 41 enterprises for the production of soft drinks.
the norms of the code are aimed at stimulating the integrity of business entities, as well as creating partnerships between the state and business.
everyone will benefit from such cooperation: entrepreneurs, young beginners, and most importantly, ordinary Kazakhstanis who receive services and products, "he said.
Currently, 14 objects have been sold, 7 objects have been transferred to the perimeter of the heritage of Kazneftegaz and the Kazakhstan railway.
Within the framework of the adopted export strategy, support was provided to 400 exporters in the country, 192 thousand business entities received support within the framework of the "business roadmap 2020," said R. Dalenov.
the transfer rate for the period was 96.8 per cent.
there was an astana-hub platform aimed specifically at supporting startup projects, "said M. Zhunisbekova.
Ruslan Kenzhebekov, head of the department of the committee on regulation of natural monopolies, protection of competition and consumer rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Almaty region, was awarded the title of world champion in sambo among masters of sports.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 2.2%.
During the meeting, measures were discussed on the formation of a funding base, state support, digitalization of the financial sphere, activation of business lending processes through judicial practice mechanisms.
all employees who worked fully in April are subject to research.
and students and youth enactus offer non-standard solutions that are important to society.
the minister also answered questions about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, electronic commerce, regions, the implementation of the project "with a diploma in the village," the possibility of introducing credit holidays by banks of the country, the transfer of some functions of the department to the newly created Ministry of Trade and Integration.
also for the purpose of the subsequent unification of the land and legal cadastre, it is proposed to transfer the functions of state registration of real estate rights and transactions on behalf of the Ministry of Justice to the state corporation "government for citizens."
Vice Minister of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan Deputy Chairman of the Committee for Industrial Development and Industrial Safety of the Ministry for Investment and Development of Bait Ropes, Deputy Akim of the city of Shymkent, Head of the Department of Education and Science of Astana, Head of the Department of Energy and Public Utilities of Almaty M.Sakhov with a report on electricity, coal, heat, water, gas, telephone, internet, medicines, peak services, bus, trolleybus and tram transportation, garbage collection and reduction of tariffs for elevator services.
the results of the annual rating as a whole indicate that the work carried out by the government to implement the tasks outlined in the messages of the head of state is reflected in improving the competitiveness of the economy and improving the well-being of our citizens, "said Timur Suleimenov.
In order to increase the efficiency of public spending, a position of budget transparency in the work of state bodies will be introduced.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 0.2%.
The difference from the current system of inspections is in the prevention and prevention of offenses without initiating administrative cases, "the minister said.
the world has developed an understanding that cities will compete for investors.
participants of the meeting expressed the opinion on improving and expanding the interaction of state bodies and civil society institutions, the development of the non-governmental sector, as well as possible areas of mutual cooperation.
Russia and Belarus have also concluded a bilateral agreement on a free trade zone with the Republic of Serbia.
During the meeting, the minister answered the questions of the people present in the hall, as well as questions sent from the regions by call, which were asked by users of the social network.
I am sure that Kazakhstan has everything necessary to become one of the leaders of the new world.
when wholesale prices are reduced, the Ministry of National Economy will work to reduce retail prices for the end user.
nevertheless, negotiations were under way to conclude a new free trade agreement with a view to unifying the trade regime by abolishing previously concluded bilateral agreements and involving all member States of the Union.
At the same time, Kazakhstan in the 2016 report on the number of reforms implemented since 2005 was recognized as the best reformer of the country and took 3rd place among 190 countries of the world.
a general assessment of the state of business is usually presented for the next year.
in the second quarter of this year, 209.3 thousand people were admitted to large and medium-sized enterprises and organizations, for various reasons - 216.3 thousand people.
2018 to June
we must conduct work such as cardiology, childbirth and lung control.
As previously reported, on September 26-27 in Astana, experts from different countries took part in the seventh round table on joining the world trade organization.
Thanks to the forum, the country's brand is developing through a global expert network, "said the Dalen channel.
the share of protein and fat and oil products (meat and meat products, dairy products and eggs) is higher than in the village.
In particular, the agenda of the forum includes a number of issues, such as the availability of entrepreneurs to finance in the region and the importance of several alternative sources of capital, mechanisms of international payments and reforms that reduce the cost of cross-border capital and money flows, as well as recent economic reforms in Uzbekistan and other central Asian countries and their impact on the expansion of trade and investment.
I want to note that in the world Kazakhstan took 1st place in the following parameters: shareholder rights in the field of corporate governance; equivalence and integrity of the legal framework applicable to liquidation and restructuring procedures; degree of electrification, the minister said.
production of food products, tobacco products, oil refining products, chemical industry products, rubber and plastic products, metallurgical industry and mechanical engineering products.
previously, it was possible to extend, suspend and update the dates of inspections.
The purpose of the event is to provide methodological assistance in the implementation of international standards for foreign trade documents, steam supply recommendations, steam sefact standards, their application in paper and electronic documents, and new digital trends.
the program provides credit networks in local currency through partner financial institutions, consulting services, training and mentoring.
improvement of the information interaction necessary to control the production of indirect taxes in the mutual trade of member States and to tax the income (property) received (acquired by legal entities and individuals of one member State in the territory of another member State);
when considering various sanctions bills, the Senate noted the need to take into account the national economic interests of Kazakhstan, as well as the interests of American investors in Kazakhstan.
The conference was attended by about 50 organizations - leading mental centers, expert organizations and research institutes, public associations, representatives of gardens, as well as international organizations in Kazakhstan.
heads of organizations (air transport)
to the previous year
it is due to the significant distance between the main economic centers of the country, the limited regional markets within the agglomerations, which does not allow local companies to use the influence of the scale of production, the low competition of a number of industries in the economy of Kazakhstan compared with key partner states (Chinese, European, Russian and Belarusian), etc.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 256122, of which small enterprises - 247770 units (less than 100 people).
Representatives of regulatory state bodies, business community and National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Atameken took part in the meeting
during the public acceptance, appropriate answers were given to all the questions posed by citizens, as well as explanations were given on certain issues ("on housing relations," "on natural monopolies") on the norms of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on a number of issues the committee departments received written appeals and put under additional control.
Indicators are based on the methodology of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in the Food Security Statistical Module.
solving these issues, as the aslanbek of the Jakupas said, requires careful and comprehensive study, and, of course, takes considerable time.
Following the results of the two meetings, the parties agreed to continue to maintain the dynamics of the growth of bilateral relations through new and existing areas of cooperation.
In recent years, we have carried out a wide verification of the control and supervisory functions of state bodies, during which the number of administrative barriers and regulatory burdens on business was significantly reduced, the digitalization of public services provided was carried out, "said Madina Zhunusbekova.
In addition, the Ministry of National Economy, Regional Economy and other representatives of the department provided akims of rural districts with practical explanations of the legislation and methodological recommendations on ways to solve problems arising in the process of work.
the largest total increase during the period under review was in cities of republican significance: Shymkent (57,934 people), Almaty (36,936 people) and Astana (26,165 people).
The average per capita nominal cash income of the population in August 2018 was estimated at 89338 tenge, which is 8.1% higher than in August 2017, and real cash income for this period increased by 2%.
the project will be implemented in a cluster way, "the minister said.
heads of organizations (production of crude oil and natural gas)
basically, entrepreneurs discussed the smooth conduct of public discussions at the stage of drafting bills, issues of the hierarchy of entrepreneurial and civil codes, as well as issues of state regulation in the fields of activity.
the state provides young people with the first specialty.
To increase the competitiveness rating, the government, together with the business community, is conducting large-scale work.
The annual traditional event is held in the capital's Kazmedia Center.
such a conversation is needed, and it was right, "the minister said.
issues of the population and entrepreneurs in this area are resolved most quickly.
use of big data (big data) creates conditions for providing the qualitative analysis, reservation of growth and decrease in excess expenses.
in addition, in the automotive industry there are VAT benefits under a special investment contract (aik).
economic issues discussed at the forum, the main topics of emerging markets.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to cooperation between the countries of North and Central Asia in resolving issues related to a neutral settlement, identifying common problems and sharing best practices.
chief metallurgist (metallurgical industry)
Despite the measures taken, the potential of interregional and intersectoral cooperation is not fully revealed and requires the active participation of regions and other organizations related to this work, "she said.
The global vision and long-term priority direction of the country's economic development regarding the updated state planning system are determined by the strategic development plan of Kazakhstan until 2025. according to the updated state planning system , the global vision and long-term priorities for the economic development of the country are defined in the development strategy of kazakhstan until 2050 .
average wages are growing at a rate. wages are growing at a moderate pace .
Kazakh delegation was headed by Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The definition is a unique diagnostic tool based on specific data.
The head of Kazakhstan noted the significant potential in the trade, economic and investment sphere.
This year, the main work involves the analysis and synthesis of the necessary qualitative information, the organization and development of scenarios for the development of workshops and retreats in each region of the country.
The meeting of the coordinating committee was held for the first time in Kazakhstan at the footbik early development club for children who successfully implemented a consulting project on the introduction of the Dutch footbik franchise.
quality and result.
the results of this work are widely covered in garden sheets and on official websites.
Switzerland is one of the main trading partners of Kazakhstan.
June 28 - RK.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 1.5%.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 1.9%.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 2.2%.
today we expect recommendations from international experts to improve and improve the management of regional budget investments. today we expect to receive recommendations from international experts on how to improve management and increase the efficiency of regional budget investments .
It was decided to hold the seventh session of the Kazakh-Hungarian intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation in the capital.
primary statistical data of the national statistical observations on the sample group of exporting, importing enterprises and the national statistical observation of prices by selected types of products (form 1-c (export, import), mutual trade in goods with member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (form 1-c) and customs statistics are used for calculation.
Kazakhstan has an ambitious goal - to enter 30 competitive countries of the world.
translator (textile production)
According to the results of the 2017 assessment, Kazakhstan took 57th place out of 137 countries, reducing its position by 4 points compared to last year. based on the results of the 2017 assessment , vef kazakhstan ranked 57th among 137 countries , having lowered its positions by 4 points compared to last year .
The Ministry of National Economy approved the second direction - "reducing the tax burden on low-paid workers to increase their wages."
this system will effectively manage traffic flows and determine the need for further infrastructure development.
In 2014-2016, he was the head of the apparatus of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and the Fight against Corruption.
- Improvement of regulatory impact analysis;
at the meeting, not only a heated council was created on the mechanisms and activities planned in the implementation of the "five social initiatives," but also deputies and experts exchanged views on important issues of the country's economy.
this agreement will give an additional impetus to trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, will contribute to a further increase in Kazakhstan's exports to Singapore, promote economic growth and attract investment in Kazakhstan.
the specific gravity of all factors is the same.
we will have to answer a difficult question: as we have two exchanges living together, they are with each other, perhaps competitors may share our markets.
the fight against corruption and the rule of law.
in addition, Dalenov reported to "party students" on the policy of forming and using the national fund, shared knowledge of the theory and experience of managing economic processes.
the state should, together with business, find and promote a strategic way to bring domestic products to international markets.
Today in the press center of the Government of Kazakhstan Deputy Chairman of the organizing committee, Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimen Khi spoke about the preparations for the Astana Economic Forum.
and if he starts to record costs, he receives a reward (deduction) for confirming losses.
The head of the region also explained in detail the upcoming "tax amnesty" in Kazakhstan, reported on innovations in the law "On natural monopolies," the new five-year plan for upcoming industrialization, and also spoke about plans to increase state support in the field of education and health care, housing construction, etc.
* ⁾ The republic's average cost of one square meter of the total area of ​ ​ primary, clean finishing apartments.
addressing women workers, he noted their significant contribution to the important tasks facing the economic department.
Representatives of the Oanei Institute, Adb, Singaporean, Chinese Center for International Electronic Commerce took part as speakers.
increasing competitiveness and increasing the capacity of SMEs is a driver of economic development and employment.
But until these issues are resolved on a systematic basis, of course, it will be difficult, in general it will be difficult to develop the securities market in Kazakhstan and it will be difficult to expect a high return for the national economy.
During the meeting, the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Energy, Justice, and the National Bank on the earlier amendments was heard.
(pipeline
ninth.
The meeting was organized within the framework of the Plan for the Development of Cooperation between Non-Governmental Organizations and the State in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As for the priority objects of privatization, according to the minister, 21 objects are put up for sale, of which 19 are national holding, 2 are the republican form of ownership.
employees of the ministry, Mr. Abdualiyev, Mr. Sarybek, b. Sulegaliyev, and. Kalysheva and a. Karataeva was awarded an honorary diploma of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
thus, veterinary therapeutic and preventive activities, the assignment of the status of breeding livestock, the allocation of quotas for the production of fish resources and other aquatic animals, certification of goods and services, the organization of a technical survey, the award of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "gold quality" and the holding of the republican competition exhibition "Best Goods of Kazakhstan" and others.
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on the continuation of cooperation between the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Business Environment, Trade and Entrepreneurship of Romania.
the round table was attended by representatives of central government bodies, quasi-public sectors, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, higher educational institutions, as well as the business community.
at the same time, arcs are calculated in the Russian Federation, China, Brazil, India, Oara and several other countries that are not members of the aid.
the Ministry of National Economy appointed an ethics commissioner - Akmek Sarbaevich Urazgulov.
in the East Kazakhstan and Kostanay regions, active work is underway to create an automobile cluster.
this means that trends are changing in the business community.
2017. by July
The weighting scheme applied to the aggregation of price indices is calculated from the value of the foreign trade turnover of a certain year.
In this regard, all people are invited to public reception rooms, including residents and representatives of gardens.
passenger travel by rail, inner-city bus rose by 3.1%, intercity - by 2.6%, and by air - by 8.5%.
In the first days of July, a seminar will be held at Nazarbayev University with the participation of representatives of the central and local executive bodies of Kazakhstan, international experts on strengthening public investment at all levels of government.
certificate: in addition to the leadership of the ministry, the public council of the family includes a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karakusova, chairman of the board of the Association of Taxpayers of Kazakhstan J. Ertilesova, chairman of the board of trustees of the Association of Economists of Kazakhstan, president of the association of legal entities of the National Association of Construction Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Ermukhanov, representatives of the civil industry a.dunayeva
During the meeting, the parties also discussed the issue of maintaining the user status of the system of general preferences for Kazakhstan.
production of food, beverages, oil refining products, chemical industry products, rubber and plastic products and production of mechanical engineering products.
independently (village school, hospital, house of culture, sports complex and others).
production of food, beverages, oil refining products, chemical industry products, pharmaceutical products, rubber and plastic products, metallurgical industry and mechanical engineering products.
It is planned to organize meetings of their representatives with the leadership of the Mayor's Office of Astana and Turkestan region.
The issue of increasing the ability to conduct and open businesses is always on the agenda, "said the First Vice Minister of National Economy.
The Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Committee) conducted an investigation into violations of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of competition protection in terms of abuse of the dominant or monopoly position provided for in subparagraph 2) of article 174 of the Business Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to Kazteleradio jsc (hereinafter - society).
The World Economic Forum (davos summit) is the largest international non-governmental organization headquartered in Geneva (Swiss Confederation).
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov on Monday at the government hour in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan made a report "On the progress of privatization" and answered questions of deputies.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov at the session of the VIII Kazakhstan Congress of Financiers made proposals on reforming the Kazakhstan stock market.
the unemployment rate was 4.9%.
in addition, annual regional and national summits are held in different countries.
The main theme of the forum is devoted to the discussion of issues of the fourth industrial revolution, global geopolitics, the development of capital markets and global trade, digitalization, etc.
The review is one of the largest country programme projects on cooperation between Kazakhstan and Aida.
During the conversation, we reacted to this very responsibly, in detail, with this in mind, we tried to determine ways to solve this problem.
Four indicators are installed at the subnational level to consider the regulation of business activities: opening a business, obtaining a building permit, connecting to a power supply system, registering property.
Currently, at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a bill is being considered "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development of the business environment and regulation of trade activities."
This meeting of ministers of economy of Turkic-speaking states is designed to create an opportunity to discuss the prospects of economic relations between the countries, as well as to develop general principles for further deepening cooperation, considered at the summit of heads of member states.
further improvement of the investment climate and development of the stock market.
leaders of the world intellectual elite, world corporations, global startups, famous futurists, foreign and domestic politicians, authoritative economists and scientists, Nobel Prize winners were invited to the forum.
in his speech, he introduced the participants to the main directions of the state budget policy, the latest amendments made as part of the improvement of budget legislation, as well as the prospects for the further development of the budget system.
The specific direction of regional budget investments in each sector, taking into account the priority of state programs, is determined by the development programs of each region. taking into account the priorities of state programs , more specific areas of regional budget investments in each industry and sphere are defined in the development programs of each region .
he is now at a meeting of parliament.
The Committee for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, the Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights carries out the presidential order in the Security Council to reduce tariffs.
the agreement will increase mutual trade between our countries, strengthen trade and economic cooperation, as well as update the bilateral legal framework in accordance with WTO rules.
to improve the investment climate in the country, reforms are being carried out on an ongoing basis, infrastructure for attracting investment is being improved.
Legal Counsel (mid-level)
At the end of the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions, including the further development of the export and transit potential of Kazakhstan, the further implementation of state and sectoral programs.
Kazakhstan's positions in terms of indicators are as follows.
thus, the volume of production increased by 3.7%.
heads of organizations (metallurgical industry)
this, in turn, will allow expanding trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, increasing the export of domestic services to the partner market and increasing investment in Kazakhstan.
wood; paper and paper products; buses; for pharmaceuticals.
Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Madi Takiyev and Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of Asan Darbaev received citizens in the republican public reception party "nur otan."
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey are currently members of the Government and Hungary is the observer.
coordination of the program is carried out on the German side through the German society for international cooperation gmbx (giz), and on the Kazakh side through the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "atameken" or another Kazakh organization.
In general, the practice of applying part of the state control of the entrepreneurial code will ensure a clearer conduct of control and supervisory activities of state bodies, as well as reduce administrative pressure on business, "said the aslanbek of the Dzhakupov.
passenger travel by air transport rose by 16.4%, rail transport - by 12.2%, coaches - by 7.9%, inner-city buses - by 4.9%.
for this, according to the head of Kazakhstan, it is necessary to increase the life expectancy of the population from 72 to 75 years, increase the incomes of 40% of the low-income population from 22.8% to 27% of the total income, improve the quality of secondary education by applying the pisa test (international program for assessing students' achievements in education).
tariff reduction forecast,% level
aibol argyngazins, director of the Center for Analysis and World Economics of the Institute of Economic Research:
All forum venues will use new modern multimedia solutions: ted talks, reports of visionaries, innovative presentations, public interviews, special workshops, etc.
this is the unconditional direction of our work.
Vice Minister also touched upon the issue of digitizing the economy of Kazakhstan's main trading partners.
the unemployment rate in October fell to 4.8%.
the main factors that raise Kazakhstan's rating are strong state and external balances, strengthened by significant state savings and significant net foreign assets of the state.
in Almaty, veterans of the USSR state plan were presented with letters of thanks on behalf of the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov in honor of victory day.
He was awarded the Order of Glory of the II degree, jubilee and departmental medals "For Valiant Labor."
The event was attended by deputy heads of ministries and departments of the member states responsible for economic and trade issues, executive secretaries of the UN European Commission and the Economic Commission for Asia and the Pacific, as well as international organizations.
During the first reading, Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov said that with the help of amendments the system of state control and supervision will be changed, that is, instead of inspections carried out in part, a new institution of preliminary control will be introduced.
2017. for March
2018 May
warning.
The document was developed in accordance with the presidential order to radically improve and expand the business environment, set out in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 31, 2017, and provides for about 1000 amendments to 14 codes and 109 laws.
The seminar was attended by more than 70 employees of central state bodies, their subordinate divisions and the Mayor's Office of Astana.
a real external assessment of this work is the "doing business" rating created by the world bank, which determines the simplicity of doing business in the country.
Including, together with the Ministry, from September to November 2017, a republican forum of akims of four villages was held with the participation of 1154 akims of rural districts in all regions of the country.
the long-term goal of our independent state is the well-being of the country and the entry of Kazakhstan into the number of developed countries of the world. "
he briefed Hungarian colleagues and businessmen on the economic development and investment opportunities of Kazakhstan.
During the conversation, the possibility of implementing joint projects in the field of pharmaceuticals, agriculture and infrastructure was discussed.
The meeting was attended by representatives of regulatory state bodies, the business community and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan "Atameken."
tobacco products in public places during the meeting (smoker, water mush, hookah, device) are completely prohibited from consuming sugar and (or) restricting advertising of food products with salt and (or) transmissions, improving state control in the field of circulation of medicines and medical products, as well as issues of sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population.
More than 70 civil servants participated in the regional courses and improved education in this area.
we systematically monitor social media accounts.
The weighing scheme applied to the aggregation of price indices is calculated from the value of the foreign trade turnover of a certain year indicated in tenge.
summing up, he noted that Kazakhstan plays a special role in the international trade system in connection with the election of the United States as the country holding the 12th ministerial conference.
Today, Kazakhstan ranks 30th among 144 countries in terms of the "proportion of women working against men" and "economic participation and opportunities for women" in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum.
Kazakhstan improved its position on 6 out of 10 basic indicators.
the inflation rate for the year is 5.3%. the inflation rate in annual terms was 5.3 % .
competition has long been going on not only between countries, but even between cities.
There is an improvement in the position on the infrastructure factor from 43 to 42 places to paragraph 1.
there is a positive dynamics of mutual trade with Iran, which in the 1st quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 increased by 70%, amounting to 170 million US dollars.
connection to power supply system
In addition, an order was issued to the company to stop violations of the norms of the entrepreneurial code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and eliminate their consequences.
the unemployment rate was 4.9%.
we call it stable growth.
Also, as already mentioned, in order to strengthen the transparency of tariff formation, as well as control over the implementation by monopolists of tariff estimates and investment programs, a bill "regulation of natural monopolies" has been developed, which is under consideration by the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which provides for:
In addition, according to the First Vice Minister, the time has come for the reconstruction of the forum.
We are talking about reducing the entrepreneur's production costs in various areas, including technical, environmental, antimonopoly regulation, land relations, natural monopolies and others, the head of Kazakhstan said.
Over 25 years of work, the Paudb has implemented more than 200 projects worth more than $200 million in Kazakhstan together with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, public organizations, the business sector, UN agencies and other partners.
tractor drivers of agricultural production (208 thousand tenge), tractor drivers (191 thousand tenge), and low - fishermen of the sea zone, Crimeans and farmers within 31 - 35 thousand tenge.
in the region, special attention is paid to the effectiveness of local executive bodies, transport infrastructure for business.
heat prices depend on coal prices and the cost of transportation from the north of the country by 35-60%.
representatives of the central public authorities, deputy akims of areas, deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of committee on regulation of natural monopolies, protection of the competition and the rights of consumers, Atameken - representatives of the National payment of businessmen of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of subjects of natural monopolies and the socially significant markets, non-governmental organizations and also representatives of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and mass media.
Head of Organization
in the framework of this meeting, WTO member countries were offered a specific indication of the treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
The rural population (62.2 per cent) is more satisfied with their lives than the urban population (53.2 per cent).
tenge with VAT
in the mining industry - by 27.2%, in the manufacturing industry - by 8.3%.
to this end, the wef promotes the development of partnership between the leaders of the world community in the business, political, intellectual and other fields to discuss and solve the most pressing problems of global development.
To date, 114 control and 18 supervisory industries have been revised, as a result of which it is proposed to exclude 25 areas of control and 3 areas of supervision due to their duplication and inefficiency, to reduce 17,654 requirements for checking SMEs, the report said.
Also, the expert group of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan recommended clarifying the functional capabilities of local executive bodies, amending the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Local State Administration and Self-Government in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On the Regulation of Trade Activities" regarding not only places, but also routes of trade routes.
Deputy Minister of National Economy Yermek Alpysov introduced the council members to the main stages and deadlines for the implementation of the project "aul - cradle of the country," the tasks of the previous stage.
For more effective and successful implementation of the recommendations, seminars on regional competitiveness and urban policy are being held today, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Following the meeting, the deputies noted the importance of the program for Kazakhstanis and the socially oriented strategic focus indicated by the head of state.
interregional migrants account for 31.7 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
We are talking about reducing the costs of entrepreneurs for production in the technical, environmental, antimonopoly spheres, land relations, natural monopolies and other areas, "the head of Kazakhstan said.
we listened to all monopolists in the field of heat, gas and electricity and got acquainted with their programs, which showed us this without any cover.
In addition, at the same time, at one of the sites within the framework of the above negotiations, the main provisions of the draft agreement were discussed, negotiations were held between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Singapore on concluding a deal on free trade in services and investments.
The parties discussed a number of issues affecting the results and forecasts of the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the reform of fiscal and monetary policy carried out by the government of the country.
2018 June
During the event, the results of the analysis of the reforms and regulation of entrepreneurial activity in the regions of the country and cities were presented.
basically, the Kazakh delegation presents the reforms provided for by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity."
The head of the delegation stressed that joint work with the business community is one of the priority areas of the government's economic policy.
marine fisherman (fisheries and aquaculture)
ekyu, dku, giz, air astana, as well as finance, investment and development, atameken of the Republic of Kazakhstan, ak'uk'ktj, national association of freight forwarders of the Republic of Kazakhstan, union of transport and logistics organizations and associations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international union of road carriers.
The weighing scheme applied to the aggregation of price indices is calculated from the value of the foreign trade turnover of a certain year indicated in tenge.
the production of tobacco products, rubber and plastic products, computers, electronic and optical products has also decreased.
our experience shows that personal reception is, in fact, a method of evaluating our work, "said T. Suleimenov.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov held an annual meeting with analysts of the international rating agency moody's investors service to revise the independent credit rating of the Republic of Kazakhstan to assess the socio-economic situation in the country.
analysts of the center conduct research, expertise and evaluation in the implementation of investment projects in the field of economics.
we are talking about about 2.5 thousand administrative units.
in the mining industry - by 29.5%, in the manufacturing industry - by 9.3%.
The presentation was attended by experts of the World Bank, Kazakh experts in the field of entrepreneurship development, representatives of central and local government bodies, as well as the business community.
exports grew by 28.2%, imports - by 10.8%.
The main provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan comply with international standards aimed at the development of the State and modern society.
cable television services - 12.1%, health services - 7.1%, hairdressing and individual services - by 6.1%, legal, insurance activities - from 6%, catering services - 5.8% - by 5.7% - for services of preschool institutions.
the basic law of our state is the guarantee of stability, peace and harmony in the country, a solid foundation for the democratic development of the republic.
Participants of the event discussed such topical issues as economic growth, industrialization, innovation, reducing income inequality, ensuring decent employment, as well as the sustainability of cities and settlements in the direction of "prosperity."
Since the beginning of this year, the increase in prices for materials, parts and structures purchased by construction organizations has amounted to 0.7%.
During the lecture, party members got acquainted with administrative, economic and institutional methods of implementing macroeconomic policy, its main goals and objectives, as well as the concept laid down in the new tax code.
Kazakh delegation in the Austrian Federal District with the Ministry of Women, Family and Youth Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sports, the budget office of the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian Institute of Economic Research.
the share of men among the unemployed is 45.5%, women - 54.5%.
taxpayers are given the right to choose a regime, "Dalenov said.
Before being appointed to the post of vice minister, he served as head of the design management center of the office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
important long-term trade agreements and economic arrangements are being discussed again for revision. important long-term trade agreements and economic arrangements are again being discussed for revision .
highly qualified and medium-sized specialists in the field of crude oil and natural gas production - 596.9 thousand tenge and 513.4 thousand tenge.
at the same time, the Minister noted that thanks to timely measures of the government, Kazakhstan annually improves its position in the ranking of the World Bank "doing business."
help:
western Kazakhstan
eastern Kazakhstan
it aims to gradually improve the social and housing standards of the population. it is oriented for stage by stage improvement of the social and domestic standards for the population .
sugar turnover in the framework of mutual trade between the countries of the union is not subject to duties.
From January 23 to 25, 2018 in Davos (Switzerland), the Kazakh delegation took part in the 48th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (hereinafter - the forum) on the topic "Shaping a common future in a destructive world."
The government's implementation of a number of unprecedented cardinal reforms to improve the business climate in Kazakhstan in the period 2014-2018 is the result of Kazakhstan's entry into the top 30 countries of the global doing business rating.
Over the past four years, db has been among the top 10 best reformers.
the average price level in the republic is defined as the weighted value of the price level of selected circles of Astana, Almaty, Shymkent, families, zhezkazgan, regional centers and districts.
The Deputy Director General expressed gratitude for the fruitful cooperation in the implementation of regional trade policy for the countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus and Eastern Europe.
ensuring macroeconomic stability and sustainable economic growth, developing entrepreneurship, competition and private capital before the Ministry this year; it was also a challenge to reduce State participation in the country's economy.
The members of the organization recognized Kazakhstan as a country with a pre-planned and favorable investment climate, pursuing a trade policy in accordance with international rights.
2015. by December
2015. by December
2017. by December
2018 by December
tenge with VAT
in recent years, the responsibility for the creation and participation of a criminal group has been tightened by law.
Observer country - Hungary.
We are well aware that the task you set for us to increase the potential of the country should be accompanied by an increase in the quality of life of the population, "said T. Suleimenov.
Within the framework of the conference, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan made a report at the joint session "Improving the business environment through effective regulation for SMEs."
this is a high moral responsibility, professional education, the ability to apply it in practice, honesty, morality, an active life position.
business intensity
eighth.
According to the indicator of minority investor protection, Kazakhstan is recognized as a world leader for the second time.
An analysis of the introduction of a new level of budget and communal ownership in rural districts is under way. at the present time , the analysis of the introduction of a new level of budget and municipal property in rural districts is being carried out .
Compared to May 1, 2017, the population increased by 238.5 thousand people or 1.3%.
this will allow the quick return of public funds spent on infrastructure.
The purpose of the round table was to discuss the plan of detailed measures on water supply, gas supply, drainage, telephone communication, Internet, peak services, bus, trolleybus and tram transportation, garbage removal and reduction of tariffs for elevator services as part of the protocol order of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated November 13 this year.
During the meeting of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan with representatives of the State Department of the AKSU, the possible effect of sanctions was discussed, interest was expressed in the implementation of new joint projects in the field of infrastructure, agriculture, processing and food production.
the use of regulatory tools over the past 3-5 years has made it possible to streamline the system of state management of entrepreneurial activities, reduce business costs, and establish a relationship between business and government, "said the Kurbanbaeva gulnar.
in the context of the development of modern international processes, the republic is interested in the integration of the domestic economy into the global and regional system.
the wef called Kazakhstan a competitive advantage in such factors as the "labor market" -30 places and the "business intensity" -37 places.
In order to continue the work on the integrated study of the business climate in each region of the country, the government decided to spread the practice of conducting a subnational rating "doing business."
2018 is the anniversary year of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the capital.
The new 4.0 methodology proposes to pay more attention to the development of human capital.
The memorandum on cooperation in the field of competition policy between the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Department of Fair Competition and Consumer Protection aims to develop cooperation in the field of competition policy and create favorable conditions for the further development of antimonopoly authorities between the two countries.
The current year's def report will be released in accordance with the new ga 4.0 methodology. the report on the vic of the current year will be published in accordance with the new methodology of gik 4.0 .
pilot (air transport)
public reception is held on an ongoing basis in all regions of the country.
If in 2016 77,860 inspections were carried out, then in 2017 only 42,873 inspections were carried out, which is 45% lower.
In his speech, the head of the economic department of Kazakhstan noted the role of idu in the formation of strong partnership relations with the Republic of Kazakhstan and emphasized that Kazakhstan needs to adapt its policy in order to remain a competitive country in the face of new global risks, such as other countries of the world.
- Improvement of the mechanism for detection and suppression of price and tariff speculation;
today, the state has created significant conditions for business, but business, in turn, must make its excessive contribution to the economic development of the country.
It should be emphasized that in many respects Kazakhstan is ahead of the countries of the region and countries with comparable income levels. it should be particularly noted that in most factors , kazakhstan is ahead of the countries of the region and countries with comparable income levels .
If violations are identified, appropriate administrative measures will be taken, "he said.
It provides for about 1,000 amendments to 14 codes and 109 laws.
the development of large and large cities in Kazakhstan, as well as throughout the world, should contribute to the innovative development of the economy and the improvement of the quality of life.
Within the framework of the meeting, issues of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Mongolia were discussed, as well as an interdepartmental memorandum on cooperation in the field of competition policy was signed.
(stable
this requires appropriate legislation.
The main goal of the project is transparency of state control and supervision, suppression and reduction of the number of illegal inspections.
the State fully complies with all its social obligations.
construction and installation works
The subbotnik was attended by employees of the central apparatus, committees and subordinate organizations.
During the meeting, the Kazakh delegation also got acquainted with the work of the Austrian audit court, which audits the relevant state bodies, existing legislative initiatives and projects for gender equality, enshrined in the constitution of the Austrian republic and an interdepartmental working group at the level of the central executive branch.
To further ensure economic growth in the region, the Ministry of National Economy is ready to work closely with the akimat on the further implementation of state programs, - said T. Suleimenov.
In January-November 2018 year real monetary incomes of the population increased by 4.4% and amounted to 1,002,4 thousand tenge.
the second part provides for the improvement of the regulation of electronic and exchange trade, the harmonization of national legislation on the regulation of domestic trade in the agro-industrial complex, as well as foreign trade activities.
these projects will improve productivity and increase growth.
From June 14 to July 3, Tdua accepted documents from business incubators to participate in the white competition.
By a decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Aigul Amantaevna Shayymova was appointed Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the meeting participants discussed a number of financial and organizational issues.
Erlan Karimov, leading expert at the Center for Enterprise Development of the Institute of Economic Research: "Supporting the car loan program" 7-20-25, "I believe that our previous experience has been studied, and the old mistakes will be reflected.
Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Aybatyr Zhumagulov held the event "Business Eurasia.
wholesale prices
in general, according to the speaker, two components are important for business, which is not to prevent business from working, that is, not to create artificial administrative barriers in the form of additional tax fees, inspections, etc.
as part of these discussions, increasing trade barriers and revising the regulatory system will have a negative impact on the global investment flow and limit economic development in all regions of the world, increasing isolation, "Suleimenov said.
(data from 1991 to January-September 2018), as well as for the CIS countries, the Republic of Kazakhstan took fourth place in residential buildings commissioned for the first half of 2018.
The meeting was attended by representatives of business in Kazakhstan, including representatives of the Agency for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Agriculture, Education and Science, Internal Affairs, and the Public Service.
the share of men among the unemployed is 46.4%, women - 53.6%.
social sector
measures will be taken to improve the provision of the population with basic state and social services for the development of remote villages, small towns and border territories, "- said A. Zhumagulov.
The tasks of business development and regional development remain relevant.
at this meeting, the situation in the field of mobile and exit trade, that is, the development of the so-called "wheeled business," was analyzed.
fare by an inner-city bus rose by 9.6%, intercity - by 7.1%, passenger air transport - by 4.6%, long-distance rail - by 0.2%.
therefore, based on the experience of the capital, the "smart city" should form a reference standard, begin to disseminate best practices and exchange experience between the cities of Kazakhstan.
he stressed that Kazakhstan adheres to multilateral cooperation, choosing liberal approaches to stimulate economic development.
this is our Nazarbayev university, the international university "capital." innovative centers such as the center, the international technology park of it-startups.
13.5 thousand women entrepreneurs received loans, loans and started their business under this program.
Kazakhstan is the main partner of Hungary among the CIS countries. kazakhstan is the most important partner of hungary among the cis countries .
a new 4.0 methodology was presented at the seminar, as well as issues on its implementation were discussed.
doing business is a fairly authoritative indicator created by the World Bank on the state of the global investment climate.
Meeting of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Chairman of the Budget and Budget Committee Gulzhan Karagusova and Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Secretary of the Budget Committee Tatyana Yakovleva.
During the forum, the Kazakh side took part in the interactive panel session "Strategic Briefing: Eurasia."
The "single window" mechanism of the Republic of Macedonia is indicated in real time.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov discussed with representatives of the American Chamber of Commerce in Kazakhstan issues of tax reform.
2015. by December
sixth.
fifth.
From 2000 to 2016, 28 functions of state bodies were transferred to the competitive environment. from 2000 to 2016 , 28 functions of state bodies were transferred to the competitive environment .
Therefore, the issue of ease of doing business is important for the regions, "said Zhumabekov.
We cordially congratulate you on one of the main state holidays of the country - Constitution Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan!
global boom. Within the framework of the forum, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov is a professor of history and international relations of Princeton University with Harold James, thomson reuters Together with the managing office of the "one belt and one road" initiative antonio de gregorio, Managing Director of External Relations and Strategic Affairs of the city, Chairman of the Ahko Scientific Council, Alexander van de putt, as well as the head of the Chinese Institute for Energy Security, Viktor Gao, discussed issues of a new era of global governance and global interaction.
works a lot.
based on the results of the works performed, information is provided on the index and current regulatory issues reflecting the assessment of transparency/equipment of the trade service market of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the same time, Kazakhstan ranks second among the CIS countries after Russia.
Kazakhstan publishes investment and financial projects that can become promising for investments in the economy of Kazakhstan.
economic sector
This year, representatives of the Ministry of National Economy, together with the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, held training seminars for akims of cities of regional significance, villages, towns and rural districts in order to improve their theoretical and practical knowledge regarding the implementation and implementation of the IV level of the budget.
The Minister congratulated the staff of the Ministry of National Economy on one of the main holidays of the country - Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The agreement will allow to supply Kazakhstan's export products from beef and lamb, pasta, legumes, barley, corn, vegetable oil, pasta, confectionery, steel rolled products, rails, batteries, fittings, pipes and other products of export interest with a higher discount than the conditions that Iran offers to other countries today.
in a number of regions of Kazakhstan, the territorial divisions of the Committee for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan held public receptions for citizens.
Singapore, Germany, Switzerland and Japan remain ranking leaders.
deputies of the maslikhat, representatives of state bodies, subjects of natural monopolies, public associations took part in the public reception.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan has established a working group for these purposes and involved experts in conducting relevant studies.
The index of physical volume of gross domestic product (yin) for the first half of 2018 (according to the reporting data) compared to the corresponding period last year amounted to 104.2%.
On August 8-9, together with the "Institute of Economic Research" of the Ministry of National Economy for representatives of maslikhat, Astana, Karaganda, Kostanay, Akmola, North Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan regions, head of the regulatory policy department of Kazakhstan B. Mustafin. (Rome, Italy) regulatory impact analysis under the guidance of a certified rat specialist trained by Sergey Pisikov. regional training workshops on implementation practices.
the electronic version of the bulletin "use of the time budget by the population" for more complete familiarization and study of the results of the study is available on the www.stat.gov.kz website of the committee in the section "official statistical information (by industry)," in the subsection "standard of living of the population."
2018 February
2019 February
flat silk, million tons
fourth.
unemployed (in accordance with hashing standards) are persons who do not have a successful profession (work), actively looking for it and are ready to start work.
Today, the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan timur Suleimenov received citizens.
production of food, beverages, refining products, rubber and plastic products, chemical, pharmaceutical, metallurgical industry and mechanical engineering.
in addition, specialists allocated from the budget for state support are not enough.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov held a meeting with monopolists on tariff issues in Almaty.
formation and strengthening of positive image of civil servants of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the index is calculated for a number of non-eid countries, for example, the Russian Federation, China, Brazil, India, southern Africa, etc.
Astana
proposed is a new alternative mode.
In turn, the representative of the UN Economic Department proposed to continue the active development of cooperation in investment and business, taking into account the advantages between the two countries, including the abolition of the visa regime and the implementation of direct flights.
The forum has a great influence: from attracting international investors to exchanging new ideas on the formation of an economic policy agenda in the country and the world, "said the Dalenov channel.
higher efficiency of transport and logistics infrastructure.
for the population
for our association, integration can contribute to deepening, strengthening and facilitating the relationship between economic actors.
production of food products, beverages, rubber and plastic products, chemical, pharmaceutical, metallurgical industry and production of mechanical engineering products.
in addition, the development of dog and engineering services is of particular importance.
rating doing business, ahko, launched events and plans in the business and investment environment caused special interest of Hungarian businessmen.
In May, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan chaired the 13th meeting of the advisory committee on tax policy and administration under the government.
The same tasks are set for Kazakhstan. similar tasks have been set for kazakhstan .
also in the interests of consumers, the antimonopoly authority ordered Kazakhtelecom JSC to maintain the xell brands - "active."
2018 May
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov paid a working visit to Pavlodar region in order to explain to the people the message of the President of the country "increasing the well-being of Kazakhstanis: improving incomes and quality of life."
Today, the fifth meeting of the coordinating committee was held in the capital with the participation of the Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan S. Zhumangarin, as well as representatives of the Atameken, Damu Kdk, the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan, second-level banks and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
health care, education, social security, culture, sports and agro-industrial complex (doctors, teachers, librarians, veterinarians, agronomists, educators, etc.) as well as specialists with seniority, education in the above mentioned areas, living in cities and other settlements and wishing to work and live in rural settlements.
credit ratings can be assigned to issuers (government, regional and local governments, corporations, financial institutions, insurance companies, funds and others) or individual debt obligations.
factors such as "institutions," "labor market efficiency" also influenced the deterioration of the position.
It is worth noting the high level of organization of the seminar-meeting, during which issues of "domestic" corruption in the areas of health protection, education, construction and urban planning, social protection and security were raised.
As of today, according to the information of the regional akimats, in December of this year the reduction of tariffs for transportation of peak, buses, trolleybuses and trams, garbage collection and elevator services is taking place in Zhambyl, Almaty, West Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, North Kazakhstan and Turkestan regions.
northern Kazakhstan
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov met with representatives of non-governmental organizations.
we became the first state among the CIS countries and eastern Europe chosen by the world community for the world specialized exhibition Expo.
Trade between the two countries has increased significantly in recent years.
According to Ruslan Dalenov, the new format will be divided into three blocks: a business program, a strategic session and a study.
unemployed (in accordance with hashing standards) are persons who do not have a successful profession (work), actively looking for it and are ready to start work.
The project with a diploma in the village is implemented for ten years in all regions of the country.
Astana city
including:
for the main Iranian products of export interest (apples, tomatoes, cucumbers) eao offer only seasonal surveys in the absence of production (from November to March).
The Minister also thanked the wise Thursday of Zhunusov for working together.
it will be aimed at strengthening mutual understanding and bilateral cooperation, as well as the exchange of information on regional policy issues.
the most competitive countries are still Hong Kong, Singapore, the Netherlands, Switzerland.
The Permanent Representative of Buudb in Kazakhstan noted the importance of joint projects in the fields of green economy, public administration, public services and prevention of corruption, social integration and inclusion, small and medium-sized businesses, climate change, housing and communal services and others.
The first public reception will be held on February 20-22, 2019 in the city of Almaty.
the potential of the services market for trade growth is enormous, and trade liberalization in this area can give impetus to the economic growth of all WTO member countries.
2017.
2018 in the boiler
such "news" sometimes cause laughter.
production of services
heads of organizations (communications)
heads of organizations (including insurance activities)
the forecast scheme is an important tool for the development of the country, defines state approaches in key areas of regional development, ensures the harmonization of existing and long-term, macroeconomic, sectoral and regional aspects of development, allows coordinating the business activities of sectoral and territorial state bodies and other organizations.
It was attended by a number of central departments, the public, non-governmental organizations, entrepreneurs and gardeners.
the decisive factor supporting Kazakhstan's rating are strong state and external balances, strengthened by significant state savings and fairly net foreign assets of the state.
passenger travel by air rose by 25.3%, intercity bus - by 5.6%, rail - by 5.1%, inner city bus - by 3.1%.
northern Kazakhstan
we want this program to be actually used, reflected in kind and taken into account. we want this program to be applied , substantive and take into account everything .
The Minister of Commerce expressed confidence that during his upcoming visit to the capital and Almaty cities on October 24-25, under the leadership of the American trade mission, specific contracts will be signed between the business community of the two countries and bilateral agreements will be reached.
Last year, the third modernization of Kazakhstan began.
the stable forecast characterizes the opinion of analysts that over the next two years there will be no new serious financial requirements between Kazakh and international investors.
The Department of Internal Administration of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Ministry) held a competition "best translation" in accordance with the action plan for 2017-2019 on the implementation of the State program for the development and functioning of languages ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020.
liquefied gas in cylinders rose by 0.7%, coal - by 0.5%.
tenth.
introduction of modern technologies in construction and the communal sector.
tretii.
this is beneficial for those who have a large turnover, but little benefit.
As a result of the measures taken at the end of 2017, Kazakhstan took 36th place in the ranking of the World Bank "doing business."
As a result, business and the business community positively evaluate the reforms carried out within the framework of the law, "he said.
The purpose of the forum is to create partnership relations between government and business, as well as discuss topical issues of improving state regulation of entrepreneurial activity: re-regulation of business.
Recall that recently on December 10 of this year, at a round table on the transparency of tariff policy and measures taken to reduce tariffs, serial zhumangarin noted that in the future it will be additionally announced in which areas and in which regions tariffs for communal services will be reduced.
The unemployment rate in December was 4.9%.
The minimum nominal wage is set for agricultural, forestry and fisheries workers - 93.7 thousand tenge, which is 42.4% lower than the national average.
- this is an international capital that has begun its work. one of the main tasks of the center.
southern Kazakhstan
passenger travel by air rose by 13.7%, by rail - by 8.1%, by intercity bus - by 6.3%, by intercity bus - by 3.1%.
Deputy Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin spoke at the site of the press center of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan before representatives of the tank on work to reduce tariffs, strengthen transparency of tariff formation, control over the implementation of tariff estimates and investment obligations by monopolists.
the drop was 7.1% in the Kyzylorda region, 4.4% in western Kazakhstan and 3.5% in the Turkestan region.
The Ministerial Conference is the supreme governing body of WTO, making important decisions that influence trade policies of all countries of the world.
It is necessary to ensure the active participation of all regional akimats in this work.
last year, food prices increased by 5.1%, non-food goods - by 6.4%, paid services - by 4.5%.
Another important stage of cooperation with eidu for Kazakhstan will be the inclusion of a limited index of trade in services.
Holding an economic forum is an effective platform for us to discuss topical issues of economic development of the region and determine concrete measures to realize its potential for further development, "said the Vice Minister.
The head of the department wished women health, well-being, family happiness and success in work.
the amount of tax under the current mechanism is 25,828 * 10% = 2,583 tenge.
Thanks to this, Kazakh schoolchildren show good results in international studies pisa and imss.
from congenital abnormalities - 138 or 23.5%, from respiratory diseases - 53 or 9%, from infectious and parasitic diseases - 28 children or 4.8%, and from accidents, poisoning and injuries - 23 or 3.9%.
this rating affects the global economic community or the relations of another state.
prices for exported goods in January-March of this year increased by 0.7%, imported - by 1.5%.
3rd place - Sultan Diaz.
prices in construction
almost all segments of the economy are seeing positive dynamics.
May 2018
help:
special tax regimes are in place for the development of small and medium-sized businesses. for the development of small and medium-sized businesses it is envisaged to maintain the existing special tax regimes .
the era of lake oil is ending.
dynamics in the construction industry stabilized at 4.1%.
according to him, this is due to the performance of infrastructure work by the Hungarian side.
2018 July
in the capital, such a meeting is held for the first time.
without transport)
cattle meat rose in price by 3.4%, conin - by 2.7%, lamb and pork - by 1.7%, and poultry meat fell in price by 9.5%.
the state provides its citizens not only with work in rural areas, but also with appropriate social support.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 5.5%, in manufacturing - by 6.1%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 5.7%.
The American side assured that economic sanctions against a number of countries are not related to the most important partner - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2018 February
2018 March
minimum price
mainly agriculture and trade.
we have achieved tariff reductions by all monopolists.
in record time, over two decades, a city has grown on the banks of Ishim, which is today known to the whole world. in record time , in two decades , a city emerged on the bank of the yesil , whose name is now known all over the world .
today, the world is entering the era of the fourth industrial revolution, at a time of profound and intense changes in the technological, economic and social spheres.
food prices increased by 2.3%, non-food goods - by 4.3%, paid services for the population - by 3.4%.
food prices increased by 2.9%, non-food goods - by 2.5%, paid services for the population - by 2.4%.
2018 to February
particular attention is paid to the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan.
(on the turnover of the competition of economic activities)
Kazakh experts have high hopes for the upcoming Astana economic forum.
2018 Sept.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs increased for cold water - by 4.4%, sewerage - by 3.2%.
- regulation of information tools;
From February 25 to 28, 2018 in Geneva (Switzerland), a Kazakh delegation led by the Minister of National Economy of the Republic Timur Suleimenov held meetings with representatives of the World Economic Forum (wef).
global boom. Within the framework of the forum (astana finance days), the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the international forum of timur suleimen "Astana," the managing center, a member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission for Integration and Microeconomics (Minister) with Tatiana Gross, Deputy Chairman of the Central Bank of the Russian Federation Ksenia Yudaeva, Deputy Chairman of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan Novat Kurmanov, Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (kase) Chairman of the Board Alina, member of the board, manager of the market for money and derivatives of the Moscow Exchange Igor marich, president of the interstate bank Igor Suvorov along with "yeek - ahko: horizons of cooperation" and "25th anniversary of the interstate bank."
2017. December
2018 December
2018 Sept.
By order of the head of state, the Zhumabek Zhumabek was relieved of the post of executive secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job.
agriculture, forestry and fisheries
So, from 2019, the individual income tax for employees with a salary of 63,125 tenge or less than 25 months will be reduced by 10 times.
and there are certain issues that require careful understanding, "he said.
this will increase the volume of trade with these countries in the future, "said B. Kekeshev.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the highest body and the sole shareholder of Astana Expo-2017 JSC.
We created independent Kazakhstan, which has become a brand, in honor and faith of the countries of the world.
our contemporaries do not remain neutral, master new promising professions related to new technologies. our contemporaries do not remain on the sidelines , but master new promising professions connected with the latest technologies .
Kentau service mkp
kilogram in tenge
This was announced by Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov at the 31st meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors.
production of services
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for trade and economic cooperation and their development, as well as signed a joint interdepartmental statement on their intention to expand cooperation on domestic regulation of trade in services.
food prices last month increased by 0.6%, non-food goods - by 0.3%, paid services - by 0.8%.
The largest number of districts within all regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Akmola and Almaty regions - 17
castransgase zone white
the law is aimed at re-regulating business, reducing business costs and eliminating administrative barriers.
in the capital, a charity race with the participation of civil servants was held in the central park of culture and recreation "Stolichny."
growth, decrease in percentage
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan held the first meeting of the working group on ensuring the functioning of the single service market within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
fiscal investment also supports economic activity in the region.
At the end of the meeting, the parties noted the need for close cooperation with NGOs, as well as the identification of new cooperation mechanisms.
the average price level in the republic is defined as the weighted value of the price level of selected circles of Astana, Almaty, Shymkent, families, zhezkazgan, regional centers and districts.
refined copper, million tons
The exchange of views is carried out by the Institute of World Economy and Politics at the Fund of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Center for Applied Research "Demand," the Fund for Entrepreneurship Development, and the Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan. of the Republic of Kazakhstan Academy, Gumilev Eurasian National University.
we have begun the process of renewing national consciousness.
on the national scale - functional urban areas with centers in cities of the "first level" (capital, diamonds, Shymkent and Aktobe agglomerations), and on the regional scale - functional urban areas with centers in cities of the "second level" (regional centers and the city of Semey).
The main part of the lecture is devoted to the economic policy of Kazakhstan.
* ⁾ The republic's average cost of one square meter of the total area of ​ ​ primary, clean finishing apartments.
Particular attention is paid to the privatization of 7 large national companies, of which 3 are preparing for a possible ipo/spo transaction. particular attention is paid to the privatization of the 7 largest national companies , 3 of which are already preparing for possible ipo / spo deals .
strengthening popular traditions, working in the interests of society and the state, you make an important contribution to the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
Today, employees of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan "we are for a clean city!" As part of the environmental month for the improvement of the capital and cleaning of the city.
aset irgaliyev graduated from the Kazakhstan Institute of Management, Economics and Forecasting with honors with a bachelor's degree in economics (Almaty, Kazakhstan).
work aimed at the practical improvement of specific conditions for business development is not limited to the measures taken to date and will continue on a systematic basis in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
In terms of institutions, Kazakhstan's position decreased from 49th to 60th place.
During the event, the level of proficiency in the languages ​ ​ of the participants in the nominations "presentation," "nation," "art," accuracy, qualitative level of response, content and specificity, orphoepic culture of speech in three languages ​ ​ were criticized.
In addition, the head of the Ministry of National Economy drew attention to the steady growth of agriculture.
total fertility rate of the Republic of Kazakhstan
The head of state in the annual message to the people of Kazakhstan "New opportunities for development in the conditions of the fourth industrial revolution" instructed:
the top ten ranking leaders included Singapore, Denmark, south Korea, Hong Kong, Georgia, Norway, Kazakhstan, Great Britain, Macedonia
On January 10-11, 2019, in Belgrade (Republic of Serbia), the third round of negotiations was held on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between member states on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other, in which representatives of the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Justice, Industry and Infrastructure Development took part.
egg prices decreased by 12.3%, and for raw milk - by 1.2%, honey - by 0.5%.
Restriction of State participation in business activities on 22 April 2014;
Today, the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan timur Suleimenov held a reception of citizens in the republican public reception party "Nұr Otan."
The possibility of creating an online portal for up-to-date information exchange with Central Asian countries was discussed.
* ⁾ The republic's average cost of one square meter of the total area of ​ ​ primary, clean finishing apartments.
Despite the fact that the country is a young member of the WTO, Kazakhstan makes a significant contribution to spiritual work, in particular, to the organization of technical cooperation.
Substantive work is carried out within the framework of the project working group on trade, water and energy, transport and border crossing facilitation, statistics, information and communication technologies, gender policies in the economy.
During the seminar, representatives of the Ministry of National Economy shared information on the current situation on the status of the regional national committee and on the main changes, reforms in the field of trade facilitation in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The socio-economic tasks assigned to the state were fully fulfilled both to the head of State, and to citizens, and to the international community, within the framework of this year.
On May 24, 2018, the Center for Research on Global Competitiveness of the International Institute for Management Development (imd, Lausanne, Switzerland) published a 2018 world competitiveness rating.
From January 23 to 26, 2018, as part of the project "Review of the budget system of the Republic of Kazakhstan: Strategy for the introduction of the best international experience in budget regulation," an eidu mission was carried out in Kazakhstan.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 19.8%, dairy, fat and oil products and eggs - 15.3%, fruits and vegetables - 10.5%, bread and cereals - 7.3%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.1%.
our conversation was open and warm. i think that we had a good , frank conversation .
solidarity of the country
2017. November
2018 April
2018 November
November 26th.
for reference
western Kazakhstan
the new quality of education.
how is this issue resolved?
the second.
maximum price
seventh.
security guard (communications)
to stimulate the development of regions in accordance with the content of this task, it is necessary to develop competition between them on the basis of the rating of regions in terms of ease of doing business and their attractiveness to receive investment funds from the republican budget.
consumer prices
The forum has become one of the main world platforms for discussing current economic problems.
eastern Kazakhstan
Among the participants are ministers and heads of delegation of about 40 WTO member countries and observer countries from the CIS, Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
construction of an industrial facility, a highway, a gas pipeline.
compared to the previous month, the international reserve increased by 0.4%.
men are more satisfied with their lives than women (58.8% and 54.9%, respectively).
prices for tiles and boards decreased by 6.9%, dumbbells - by 4.6%, sanitary products - by 2.4%.
the main share is occupied by trade and transport: growth in these sectors was 7.2% and 4.5%, respectively.
food prices increased by 5.1%, non-food goods - by 6.4%, paid services for the population - by 4.5%.
we must continue to do so.
in turn, for Iran are indifferent: figs, meiz, asshayan, melons, orange, lemon, lime, confectionery, some types of juices, building paints and varnish, dishes, detergents, customs duties on goods such as carpets, plastic products will be reduced (on average 0-10% of the current volume).
According to experts, the next legislative amendments (7 packages), starting from the moment the bank account is opened online without appropriate verification, include reforms of remote control, priority to the pledge creditor in the bankruptcy procedure of the enterprise, public access to the data of the unified registry of the pledge of movable property.
As a result, all our graduates will have three languages at the level necessary for life and functioning in our country and in the global world.
Over the years of independence, a flexible economy has developed, stable to the external environment, which is developing steadily, has become a solid basis for our young statehood and the formation of a new free nation, "the minister said in his welcoming speech.
22.976 loans were issued to micro, small and medium enterprises.
definition: the global competitiveness index - a global study of the countries of the world and accompanying its rating on economic competitiveness according to the World Economic Forum.
According to the Minister, wage growth amounted to 1.3 million Kazakhstanis.
The seminar was attended by representatives of central government bodies, the Eidu Directorate, the Embassy of Portugal, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Canada.
During the meeting, employees of the Institute of Economic Research got the opportunity to ask questions about five social initiatives of the president.
the report of the subnational rating "doing business" in Kazakhstan presents four indicators: opening an enterprise, obtaining a building permit, connecting to a power supply system and comparative analysis on property registration.
this is an important condition for preparing young people for a new technological norm.
During the negotiations, the parties continued to discuss the provisions of the sections of the draft agreement on trade in goods, rules of origin, intellectual property, customs cooperation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade.
The Vice Minister noted the importance of fulfilling the instructions of the Head of State and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan to reduce tariffs for utilities and instructed to continue work in this direction.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs increased for centralized heating by 1.9%, hot water, housing content - by 1.7%, garbage collection - by 1.2%, electricity - by 0.7%, gas transported through distribution networks - by 0.4%.
digitalization of processes in state bodies, including their relations with the population and business.
an improvement in paragraph 2 (28th place) is observed in the public structure sub-factor.
The operator of this initiative is the "national agency for technological development."
The CIS Economic Council consists of deputy heads of government of the CIS member states.
the world is changing, modernization is underway in Kazakhstan, which means that the forum should meet new requirements. the world is changing , kazakhstan is being modernized , and therefore the forum must meet new challenges .
a decrease in prices for cucumbers was recorded - by 57.3%, tomatoes - by 44.2%, garlic - by 26.7%, eggs - by 12.3%, sweet pepper - by 10.4%, potatoes - by 5.9%.
The leadership of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan was awarded high state awards.
Following the conference, the Institute of Economic Research signed memoranda on cooperation with the Institute of World Economy and Politics under the foundation of the first President - Head of State and the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This year we expect an improvement of 8 positions on the "institutions" factor. turlibek.
similar reviews were conducted in Canada, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Poland, the Russian Federation, Thailand.
this trend will be strengthened by stabilizing domestic fuel prices associated with strengthening tenge and increasing oil refining, the minister said.
this, of course, will reduce the costs of entrepreneurs and pressure on their main activities, which, accordingly, will reduce corruption risks, "the minister said.
a decrease in prices for buckwheat was recorded - by 4.9%, sandbox - by 3.2%, rice - by 1.1%, black tea - by 0.9%.
During the seminar, issues of the current state and promising development of the sphere of policy assessment and risk management in the central state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan were discussed.
Today, an expert round table on the topic: "Astana Economic Forum: Global Challenges of the 21st Century and Kazakhstan" was held in the capital on the basis of the Kazakh Institute of Strategic Studies (Kssi) under the President of Kazakhstan.
about this the head of the agency territorial department, the chairman of the ethics council n. zhannazarov.
we believe that whoever it is should enter about this range, "the minister said.
the purpose of this cooperation is to develop capacities, increase the competitiveness and efficiency of small and medium-sized enterprises in the West Kazakhstan region and the city of Aksay.
According to the minister, the country is focused on changing economic development in order to develop fair competition, equitable international trade, improve the investment climate, as well as increase quality growth through technological modernization and digitalization of economic sectors.
diesel fuel rose by 18.8%, coal - by 5.9%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 4.9%, and gasoline fell in price by 2.6%.
prices for exported goods in January-August of this year increased by 13.3%, imported - by 4.5%.
at the same time, the forecast price reduction for the population in the city of Shymkent and the Turkestan region is 6.8% (from 14.05 to 13.09 tenge/kvz).
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20.6%, milk, fat products and eggs - 16.3%, fruits and vegetables - 8.2%, bread and cereals - 7.6%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.3%.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 18.7%, dairy, fat and oil products and eggs - 14.6%, fruits and vegetables - 12.7%, bread and cereals - 6.9%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.1%.
white and ganysh - by 13.5%, paints and enamels - by 0.6%.
10,439,6 thousand people (57.4%), villagers - 7,738,1 thousand people (42.6%).
and also, for example, to state bodies and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "atameken," if the founder (natural person and/or legal entity), head of legal entity, founder and (or) the head of the legal entity that created the legal entity, if there is a borrower under the executive document, made recommendations regulating the resolution of issues arising in connection with the registration of the legal entity, as well as the introduction of security for the execution of the contract on public procurement from 30 calendar days to 20 days to reduce the period of payment for the work performed and eliminate the standards.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 9.3%, in manufacturing - by 5.1%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 4.9%.
position of the republic on the remaining three indicators: 18th place on the indicator "registration of property" - on 1 position, 56th place on the indicator "taxation" - on 6 positions, 76th place on the indicator "connection to the power supply system" - on 6 positions.
During the discussion, a number of topical issues in the field of advertising were identified, which, according to the results, lead to business costs.
this, of course, will reduce the costs and pressure that will divert the attention of the entrepreneur from the main activity, accordingly, the corruption threat will decrease, "said the vice minister.
gas oil (diesel fuel), million tons
In 2013-2014, he worked as deputy head of the situation center of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we are improving the process of managing state budget investments, including in the regions, "said Alpysov.
the largest total increase during the period under review was in cities of republican significance: Shymkent (56.6 thousand people), Almaty (51.6 thousand people) and Astana (46.7 thousand people).
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 18.1%, fruits and vegetables - 14.4%, milk, fat products and eggs - 13.9%, bread and cereals - 6.7%, sugar, tea and spices - 1.9%.
thus, the amount of recalculation for the heating period 2017-2018 in terms of regions (including VAT):
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov received citizens.
In his speech, the Minister noted the special role of the state and political figure, a visionary and constructive politician, the actual authoritative leader of his people - the first president of the country, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, in the dynamic development of Kazakhstan, becoming a competitive state recognized by the international community.
in the economy of the republic in October 2018, according to estimates, 8.7 million people were employed 1).
The reporting meeting of Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov with the population began.
In addition, within the framework of the visit, bilateral meetings were held between Minister of National Economy T.Suleimenov and vef President b.brende, head of the initiative "the future of production." Leurent., head of the business attraction department of Europe and Eurasia t.lashnikov.
tobacco products - by 3.6%, alcoholic beverages - by 0.8%.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20.5%, milk, fat products and eggs - 16.3%, fruits and vegetables - 8.3%, bread and cereals - 7.6%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.3%.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20.5%, milk, fat products and eggs - 16.5%, fruits and vegetables - 8.3%, bread and cereals - 7.5%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.2%.
All public services necessary for doing business are provided on a single window basis.
cucumbers grown in a closed place rose by 24.1%, cabbage - by 5.1%, tomatoes grown in a closed place - by 3.4%, potatoes and table beets - by 0.5%, and table carrots fell by 0.8%, bulb onions - by 0.4%.
in the field of housing and communal services, the tariff for sewerage increased by 3.1%, for cold water - by 3%, gas transported through distribution networks - by 2.7%, centralized heating, housing content - from 2.6%, hot water - by 2.2%, electricity - by 1.1%.
On December 7, 2018, Astana hosted the international conference "Family and Gender Policy: Successes and Prospects," dedicated to the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy.
In addition, the head of the Hungarian Foreign Ministry shared plans to expand cooperation within the framework of the Turkic Council.
in general, the adoption of a new bill on natural monopolies:
Definition: phef is a special event in the world of economy and business.
During the dialogue, the parties discussed the current state and prospects for the development of cooperation in Kazakh-Hungarian economic cooperation, agreed to strengthen cooperation in the areas of trade and investment, finance, agriculture, tourism, education, energy, culture and others.
contact numbers of hotline phones by region can be found on the antitrust committee website (http:// kremzk.gov.kz/).
Together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, there is a very successful program "Women in Business."
we are ready to provide assistance if it is necessary to amend the legislation, "the minister said.
The highest birth rate among the regions of Kazakhstan was noted in the Mangistau region (per 1,000 population of 29.74 born), the city of Astana (28.23) and the South Kazakhstan region (27.20).
ensuring macroeconomic stability among them; technological modernization and digitalization of economic sectors; the development of competition and private capital; enterprise development; integration processes and trade development.
we are actively engaged in free trade negotiations with Israel, Serbia, India. we are actively negotiating free trade with israel , serbia , india .
The Minister gave a summary of the reporting meeting and the questions raised during the meeting.
gross domestic product (at constant prices)
simplifying business opening procedures during the event, reducing the time required to register value added tax from 5 working days to 1 working day, a ban on requiring private companies to have a seal on documents, the introduction of an information system on the railway, According to the indicators "receiving loans" and "protecting minority investors," reform issues were presented, obtaining permits for construction, registration and registration of rights to real estate, etc.
Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented to the staff of the Urazalinsky Ministry a new responsible secretary - the dreams of Zhumabekov.
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan informed the representatives of the def about the current positions of Kazakhstan in the global competitiveness index (gi) and the work of the government of the country to increase the assessed indicators.
an increase in prices for barley by 0.7%, cotton by 0.4%, a decrease in their prices for wheat - by 1.1%, wool - by 0.5%.
Further, Deputy Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin spoke to reduce tariffs (electricity, coal, heat, water, gas supply, sewerage, telephone communication, Internet, elevator maintenance, garbage collection).
strengthening the spiritual traditions of our people, working for the benefit of society and the state, make an invaluable contribution to the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
he graduated from bachelor's and master's degree in Hungary.
also, the possibility of multiple extension of the period of inspections and preliminary control is limited to 15 working days for inspections according to a special procedure and preliminary control with a visit to the subject (object) for a period of not more than once, according to unscheduled inspections - up to 10 working days.
percentage of previous month, increase +, decrease -
Today, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation have bilateral agreements providing for free trade.
by region of the Republic of Kazakhstan
From October 1 to 3 of this year Astana hosted a national seminar on hurricane resolution for state bodies and organizations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in January of this year, export prices for iron ores increased by 12.5%, copper - by 11.6%, manganese ores - by 8.2%, coal - by 5.1%, oil - by 1.1%, zinc - by 2.9%, aluminum - by 2.5%, ferrous metal ores - by 1.4%.
Also, according to experts s & p, thanks to the new tax code, state revenues will gradually increase.
As for changes in factors, Kazakhstan's position on the "institutions" factor from 49th to 60th place, for "infrastructure" from 63 to 68, "macroeconomic environment" from 69 to 98, "health and primary education" out of 94 with 59 places, "higher education and vocational training" in "commodity market efficiency" from 57 to 56 places, in "commodity market efficiency" from 20 to 35 places. market development "from 104 to 114, in terms of" competitiveness of companies "- from 97 to 108, in terms of" innovation "- from 59 to 84.
these and other measures should be reflected in Kazakhstan's national security strategy.
Indicators of the labor market in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2018
Labor market indicators in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2017-2018
The main goal of the WEF is to improve the global climate of the world by assisting the world community in addressing issues of economic development and social progress.
in mining and quarrying, production increased by 6.8%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 0.1%, in water supply, sewage system, control over collection and distribution of waste - by 14.4%.
the provisions of the business code governing state control and supervision correspond to significant demand, "said Zhakupov.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 4.9%, in manufacturing - by 4.8%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 3.9%.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 4.9%, in manufacturing - by 5.1%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 3.5%.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 5.5%, in manufacturing - by 5.2%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 4.4%.
the Kazakh delegation is headed by the Director of the Department of International Cooperation of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan kurat turebayev, and the European delegation is headed by the head of the Department of the Directorate General of the European Commission for Trade Petros Sourmelis.
the meeting was held as part of the upcoming meeting to improve the investment climate.
At the end of the session, training sessions on crisis communications, big data and cybersecurity were held for the seminar participants.
On September 20-21, 2018, an economic forum and the 13th session of the Spack Governing Council will be held in Almaty on the theme: "Twentieth anniversary of a special program for the economy of Central Asia: a new stage of regional cooperation for the implementation of the sustainable development agenda for the period up to 2030," dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Special Program for the economy of Central Asia (speca).
Our country always attaches great importance to strengthening and strengthening bilateral economic ties, "said the Vice Minister.
Recall, February 14, 2017 in a specialized inter-district administrative court of Astana (hereinafter - the city of Astana) "Kaztransgaz zone" was fined more than 13 million tenge for abuse of dominant position, including unreasonable calculation of correction factors to consumers of commercial gas, and also brought to administrative responsibility. It is ordered to stop the practice of calculating correction factors for consumers of domestic and communal gas of Kaztransgaz Region JSC, and return the funds received from the calculation of the adjustment factor to household and communal consumers from July 2012 (antitrust authority order of February 1, 2017).
in terms of government efficiency, Kazakhstan took 25th place.
gas oil (diesel fuel), million tons
(until January 1, 2019).
The head of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted that the priority area is the implementation of shares of national companies within the framework of the international program "Capital." on the center site (ahco).
this code does not indicate the types and groups of antifreeze and icebreaker fluid, as well as the terms and concepts of "glass washers" and "washing liquids."
the second is financial support for business by the state.
Kazakhstan is one of the four countries in the world that have signed a country programme of cooperation with eidu.
The event was attended by representatives of the presidential administration, the prime minister's office, the central election commission, the agency for public service affairs and anti-corruption, central state and local executive bodies, as well as territorial election commissions.
investments in industry grew by 17.5%.
According to the First Vice-Minister of National Economy, the forum is a magnet that attracts foreign investors, where leading businessmen of Kazakhstan and the world meet.
this is very important for the regions.
in order to implement this initiative, joint work was carried out with state bodies and the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
commodity structure of imports from eurozone countries of the Republic of Kazakhstan
for the second year in a row, the top four countries remained the same as Singapore, Germany and Switzerland.
the competition is held by the Department of Economic Development, the Department of Macroeconomic Analysis and Forecasting, the Department of Budget Policy, the Legal Department, the Economics Department, the Department of Budget Investment and Public-Private Partnership Development, the Committee on Statistics, the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights.
in terms of business efficiency, Kazakhstan took 34th place.
Therefore, there should be rigidity, but we should not go beyond, "he said.
new opportunities for establishing mutually beneficial cooperation for the business structure of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. for the business structures of kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan , new opportunities are opening up to establish mutually beneficial cooperation .
The representative of the Ministry of Energy informed the meeting about a new package of legislative initiatives to improve Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating.
The head of the region introduced the new vice minister to the staff of the Ministry of National Economy.
In 2013-2014 - Director of the Department of Tax and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning.
percentage, previous month, increase +, decrease -
percentage, previous month, increase +, decrease -
commodity structure of Kazakhstan's exports to eurozone countries
Kazakh delegation is represented by Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov, Hungarian delegation Deputy Prime Minister of Hungary, Minister. headed by the Minister of Mihai Varga.
During the event, the current state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Spanish trade and economic cooperation were discussed, as well as the possibility of expanding bilateral cooperation.
This was announced by the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan at the reporting meeting with the population.
property registration
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the agreement was signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.
Indicators of the labor market in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2017
the increase was 4.7% with outperforming growth in processing from the mining industry (4.6%) (5.4%).
excluding for budget organizations
percentage, growth +
new ideology, new incentives and new methods of administration lay the foundation for qualitative improvements. a new ideology , new incentives and new methods of administration are laying the foundations for qualitative improvements .
In 1994-1995 - Head of the Department of "Kazagromeliovodkhoz" of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of National Economy, together with the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE), held a seminar for representatives of State bodies and business of the Republic of Kazakhstan on "improving transparency and improving access to trade-related regulations."
Within the framework of the forum, the Kazakh side held bilateral meetings with the leadership of a number of international financial and economic development institutions and transnational companies, including the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (aiib), the Executive Committee of the World Economic Forum, as well as departments of a number of countries participating in the forum.
among the CIS countries, Kazakhstan occupies a high place, Russia - 45th place, and Ukraine - 49th place.
these are completely new programs, textbooks, standards and personnel.
percentage of previous month, increase +, decrease -
Raising the country's rating by age is one of the priority areas of economic policy of the Government of Kazakhstan.
The working group includes the ministries of national economy, investment and development, health, energy, labor and social protection of the population, the national chamber of entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Atameken," the "institute of economic research" white, "the Kazakhstan institute of development of the industry" white and "nadloc" white.
in the review, the experts of Eidu gave a comprehensive assessment of our country's regional policies through economic, social and environmental aspects and made recommendations for their improvement. in the review , oecd experts conducted a comprehensive assessment of the regional policy of our country through the prism of economic , social and environmental aspects and provided recommendations for their improvement .
we have begun to modernize our economy, politics and consciousness through political stability and social harmony.
b. "Renewal" of the sector. "
heads of specialized (production and operation) divisions (services) (production of crude oil and natural gas)
The open conversation took place as part of the execution of the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at the meeting of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The forum was attended by representatives of parliament, government, central state bodies, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, as well as representatives of the business community.
The head of the department wished women health, well-being, family happiness and success in work.
thus, considering that currently Kazakhtelecom does not have a market share in the market for cellular services, the antimonopoly Kazakhtelecom has agreed to an economic concentration including the purchase of 75% of the voting shares of kcell JSC.
Representatives of the Ministry of Women Affairs in Kazakhstan, the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan, akb. "Center for Strategic Initiatives" in Kazakhstan), Center for Competitiveness of the International Scientific Complex "Capital," RGP "Inclusive Community of Experts - the Right to the City," World Bank in Kazakhstan.
The forecast decline in retail prices for the population in Almaty region was 16 (16.08, from 36 to 22.32% tenge/kvz) in 5 regions (from 31 to 4.12 tenge/kvz).
Representatives of the public fund "Law," the public association "Social Research," the private fund "Protection of the Capital" took part in the discussion of the bill.
the main factor of economic growth is high investment activity, a slowdown in inflation, as well as an increase in production in the main sectors of the economy, "the minister said.
December 7, 2018
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the economy) on August 1 of this year at the site of the Kameda public fund together with representatives of non-governmental organizations of the city of Astana developed a draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the redistribution of powers between levels of public administration" (hereinafter - the bill).
In addition, the minister provides for subsidizing the interest rate of credit, guaranteeing loans, providing grants and service measures for training entrepreneurs Under the 2020 Business Roadmap program and the Program for the Development of Productive Employment and Mass Entrepreneurship, which provides microcredit for unemployed and unsuccessful people in rural areas and small towns, the state provides comprehensive support to business.
to this end, the project "village - cradle of the country" will be implemented.
The subnational doing business rating study consists of the following steps:
The treaty covers many areas of trade regulation and cooperation, such as domestic market protection measures, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, customs cooperation, intellectual property, competition, public procurement cooperation, sectoral cooperation, electronic commerce.
prices for dried legumes increased by 16.4%, sunflower seeds - by 9.6%, cotton - by 8.1%, and sugar beets - decreased by 19.6%.
During the mission, Astana held meetings with representatives of the Ministries of National Economy, Finance, Labor and Social Protection of the Population, Health, Mayor's Office of Astana, Parliament, the Accounts Committee for Monitoring the Implementation of the Republican Budget, as well as non-governmental organizations.
On November 23, 2018, Deputy Minister of National Economy A. Zhumagulov, together with the heads of atameken and put on at the Atameken site, explained the norms of the program to ensure long-term liquidity for entrepreneurs and local executive bodies to solve the problem of providing affordable loans.
now investment preferences are given only to new projects and new enterprises. now investment preferences are provided only for new projects and new enterprises .
having won the World Cup, he became a master of sports of international class.
The Minister noted the special role of the first president of the country, prominent statesman and politician Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev in the dynamic development of Kazakhstan and the formation as a competitive state recognized by the entire international community.
rising prices last month for newly harvested vegetables - 12.2%, eggs - 2.1%, small cheese - 1.5%, rice - 1.3%, poultry meat, horse meat - 1.2%, butter - 1.1%, sausages - by 0.9%, meat products, flour - by 0.8%, lamb, gingerbread and flour products - 0.7% each, pasta, fresh milk, sunflower oil, pork, confectionery products 0.5% each.
the issue of the comfort of doing business at this stage is very important for Kazakhstan. in modern conditions , the issue of business comfort is paramount for kazakhstan .
this practice has long existed in the world.
Over the years of independence, the production of buses has been established in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this issue is the focus of attention of all central State and local authorities.
Since the beginning of the year, export prices have decreased for manganese ores - by 19.1%, iron ores - by 16.7%, copper - by 9.1%, zinc - by 4.9%, coal - by 3.5%, oil - by 0.8%, ferroalloys - by 5.6%, chromium ores - by 3.9%, iron ores - by 2.6%.
In BC-2025, financial support tools will be improved, "Dalenov said.
as of December), sales of new housing grew by 2.6%, unfinished - by 2.4%, improved housing - by 1.9%.
armenia, neutral events in northern and central Asia - this is the topic of a subregional seminar held on June 10-11 this year in Yerevan.
lower prices for sandbox - 2.7%, buckwheat - 1.3%, cottage cheese - 0.8%.
as part of the first direction - the reform of state control and supervision activities - a new institution of preliminary control will be introduced in Kazakhstan.
this will make it possible to create and promote a brand of natural food "Made in Kazakhstan," recognizable throughout the world.
among the CIS countries, Russia leads (43rd place, above 2 positions), then Kazakhstan (59th place, unchanged), Georgia (66th place, above br position).
their revenues will be increased from 22.8% to 27% by 2025.
The consumer's complaint was an attempt by the "xell" not to inform the consumer about the write-off of more than 30 thousand tenge after exceeding the Internet access limit according to the forward-1 tariff plan and the beginning of charging 1 tenge per 20 mb for Internet access.
public discussion on October 2018, 5 at 10:00 a.m. at: Astana, pr. Eternal country, house 8, the building "House of Ministries," entrance 7, cab. 634. to the address.
rising prices for pharmaceutical products - 2.9%, cars - 2.8% - personal goods - 2.1%, household appliances - 1.9%, glass and brick products - 1.8% for clothes and shoes, detergents and cleaning products - 1.7% each, furniture and items needed for the home - 1.6%, textiles - 1.5%, books - 1.3%.
During the negotiations, the parties discussed issues of the future agreement on trade in goods, trade protection measures, rules of origin, customs cooperation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to trade, intellectual property, competition, sectoral cooperation, electronic trade, dispute resolution and transparency.
⁾ in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Youth Policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
in the structure of wool, the share of goods production is 36.6%, services - 57.4%.
In addition, the Ministry of National Economy, together with the deputies of the Nұr Otan party faction, will continue to work to create favorable conditions for doing business and economic growth in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
tariffs for the transportation of goods by all modes of transport increased by 31.1%, for communication with legal entities - by 11.2%, for postal and courier services - by 4.5%.
According to Dalenov, the main directions of economic policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan are formed through strategic documents and the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the stages of documents are established in the current state planning system.
* ⁾ The republic's average cost of one square meter of the total area of ​ ​ primary, clean finishing apartments.
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the memorandum was signed by the Vice-Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan S. Zhumangarin, Head of the Antimonopoly Service under the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan sk.
poultry meat prices increased by 3.3%, cattle meat - by 2.2%, pork - by 1.9%, conin - by 0.9%, lamb - by 0.6%.
coal - by 1.7%, gasoline - by 1.2%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 0.3%.
Today, the Astana Economic Forum hosted the panel session "Green Economy: a New Model for Sustainable Growth."
In addition, the representative of the Ministry of National Economy noted that the reduction in the duration of the inspections under consideration on the bill (on an exceptional order - from 30 to 15 days and on preliminary control from 30 to 10 days) , on the extension of procedures for the analysis (rata) of regulatory impact on all decisions of the local level, as well as departments of central state bodies, reduction of expenses of entrepreneurs in various areas, including technical, environmental, natural antimonopoly regulation, reduction of production costs, land relations, natural monopolies, measures to eliminate competition rules, and other innovations.
cooperation between the parties, according to the memorandum, will be carried out on the basis of the national legislation of Kazakhstan and Mongolia.
the purpose of the public hearings was to explain to the population the targeted use of natural monopolies by entities in the field of heat, water supply and electric energy transmission of consumer funds within the framework of the approved tariff estimates and investment programs during the period from 2015 to 2018.
began his career as a territorial economist in the Department of Economics for Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia of the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction in London.
for the nine months of this year, the price index for construction and installation works amounted to 104.1%, machinery and equipment - 101.3%, other works and costs - 103.4%.
for conin - 9.5%, sausages - 7.5%, beef - 7.3%, pork - 7.1%, lamb - 5.9%.
in the structure of wool, the share of goods production is 36.5%, services - 57.0%.
important work in this direction is carried out within the framework of the state program "Digital Kazakhstan," aimed at creating a future digital economy.
farmer (crop and animal husbandry, hunting and provision of services in these areas)
secretaries, office managers (fisheries and aquaculture)
food prices increased by 6.5%, non-food - by 8.9%, paid services - by 5.9%.
Also, a decrease in retail electricity prices for legal graduates in 8 regions from 1.7% in Almaty (from 16.36 to 16.08 tenge/kvz) to 18% in Mangistau region (from 17.34 to 14.10 tenge/kvz).
During the meeting, members of the advisory committee discussed a number of important issues related to changes in the tax legislation of the EAEU member states in 2018, amendments and additions to the Protocol on the procedure for collecting indirect taxes and the mechanism for controlling payments when exporting and importing goods, performing work, providing services, as well as conceptual approaches to taxation of electronic trade in goods.
In terms of economic activity, Kazakhstan rose by 5 positions and took 49th place.
Portland cement, million tons
The presentation was also attended by representatives of the NPP, experts of central state bodies, the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Center for Trade Policy Development JSC.
currently, the Turkic Council includes Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey.
The youth unemployment rate at ⁾ 15-28 years old was 3.9%.
Today in Brussels (Kingdom of Belgium), the 2nd meeting of the cooperation committee "Republic of Kazakhstan - European Union" is held in a trade configuration (hereinafter - the committee).
structure, in%
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Afghanistan are currently participating in its execution.
This will contribute to the expansion of business ties, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of the Association of Disabled Children of Astana, Veteran, Astana Forum, the Union of Entrepreneurs of the Capital, the Consumer League Association, eurasianexpert council and others took part in the discussion of the bill.
Since the beginning of the year, producer prices for natural gas increased by 51.7%, fuel oil - by 38.8%, oil - by 31.6%, liquefied propane and butane - by 18.8%, metal ores - by 15.8%, diesel fuel - by 14.8%, coal - by 10.3%, gasoline - by 9.4%.
in the structure of wool, the share of goods production is 36.8%, services - 55.7%.
in the structure of wool, the share of goods production is 38.1%, services - 54.4%.
The International Program of Mental Centers and Civil Society (think tanks and civil society programs), global go to think tanks index annually holds a world forum dedicated to the presentation of the global ranking of leading mental centers.
changes in foreign trade prices
changes in foreign trade prices
changes in foreign trade prices
Astana to host meeting of Eurasian Economic Commission in Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs on June 11 (Minister) of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chaired by Marat Kusainov, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Atameken NPP, individual entrepreneurs, as well as the Eurasian Economic Union of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of representatives of non-profit and public organizations of member states (eek) a retreat of the public reception unit on competition and antitrust regulation was held.
Further, the Minister reported to the co-founder of the company "creatio" on the plans of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the development of the Turkestan region.
by December) sales of new housing increased by 1.3%, and sales of improved housing - decreased by 1.6%, improved - by 0.8%.
pastoralist (crop and animal husbandry, hunting and provision of services in these areas)
By order of the head of state, he was appointed executive secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
in Paris, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Eidu signed an agreement on the implementation of the project for the Republic of Kazakhstan "Accounting for a limited index of trade in services."
this year it is necessary to allocate an additional 67 billion tenge.
During the 2nd meeting of the committee, issues of bilateral trade, agriculture, transit, taxation, currency regulation, as well as attracting foreign labor, etc. are discussed.
heads of organizations (accommodation and nutrition services)
This was announced by the Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in his welcoming speech.
The Ministry of National Economy, together with the Institute of Economic Research JSC, held a round table on the topic: "Practice of applying the entrepreneurial code of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
in the ranking (def di) last year we ranked 57th among 138 countries of the world. in the ranking ( gec vef ) last year , we are on the 57th place out of 138 countries .
in the industry structure, the largest nominal wage in mining and quarrying is 390.4 thousand tenge (2.2 times the average republican level). in insurance activity - 364.7 thousand tenge (more than 2.1 times), in professional, scientific and technical activity - 332.5 thousand tenge (more than 1.9 times), in the field of information and communication - 261.7 thousand tenge (more than 1.5 times), in the construction sector - 227.5 thousand tenge (more than 1.3 times).
representatives of the ministries of national economy, investment and development, finance, energy, the national bank, atameken and the quasi-public sector.
export prices for oil from the beginning of the year - 19.8%, manganese ores - 19.5%, copper ores - 17.6%, copper - 14.9%, natural gas - 13.6%, ferroalloys - 12.8%, iron ores - 10.7%, ferrous metals - 10%, coal - 8.5%, aluminum - 8.2%, zinc - 11.1%.
rising prices for cars - 1.9%, pharmaceutical products - 1.8%, personal goods - 1.7%, household appliances - 1.6%, glass and brick products - 1.4%, textiles - 1.3%, cleaning and cleaning products - 1.2%, furniture and household goods - 1.1%, clothing and shoes, books - 1%.
poultry meat rose by 4.5%, cattle meat - by 4.2%, conin - by 3.7%, lamb - by 3.3%, pork - by 2.5%.
2017. by December
this is a great means.
percentage by the end of the period, December of the previous year,
potatoes fell in price by 14.1%, table carrots - by 6.4%, bulb onions - by 5.5%, cabbage rose in price by 5.4%, table beets - by 3.2%.
last month, prices for cucumbers increased by 10.5%, tomatoes - 9.8%, for sweet corners - 9%, for cabbage - by 4.3%, potatoes, onions - 3% for eggs - 1.4%, carrots - 1.1%, canned milk - by 1%, butter, fresh fish - by 0.8%, small cheese - 0.5% for, lamb, confectionery - 0.3%.
ways of business development. "
percentage, increase +, decrease -
percentage, increase +, decrease -
The Ministry of National Economy and interested government bodies held a final seminar to review the results of the study "Improvement of fiscal rules in Kazakhstan and business management" on the knowledge exchange program under the knowledge sharing program (ksp) within the framework of free technical cooperation with the Republic of Korea.
From 2015 to July 2, 2018 - adviser to the akim of the Yesil district of Astana, from June 19, 2017 - Commissioner for Ethics.
The delegation of Kazakhstan included representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Health, Investment and Development, Information and Communications, Education and Science, Foreign Affairs, Atameken and the Prime Minister's Office.
as an international rating agency, standard & poor's is engaged in assigning short-term and long-term credit ratings.
in the industry structure, the largest nominal salary in insurance activity - 335.3 thousand tenge (2.1 times the average republican level), professional, scientific and technical activity - 273.2 thousand tenge (more than 1.7 times), in industry - 224.7 thousand tenge (more than 1.4 times), in the field of information and communication - 238.4 thousand tenge (more than 1.5 times), in the construction industry - 212.8 thousand tenge (more than 1.3 times).
the share of expenditures on low-consumption non-food goods and services intended to calculate the subsistence minimum is set at 40 percent of the cost of the minimum consumer basket.
guard (fisheries and aquaculture)
- all measures should be implemented for the development of the Kazakh economy.
The event was attended by Deputy Minister of Economy of the Republic of Azerbaijan sahib mammadov, Deputy Minister of Economy of the Kyrgyz Republic eldar abakirov, Deputy Minister of Trade of the Republic of Turkey.
According to a sample survey of households in 2017, the share of the population with a level of food deprivation or food calorie content below the minimum limit was 1.1 percentage points and 3.6% compared to last year.
this is due to planned repairs.
average annual inflation fell from 14.6% to 7.1%.
Minister of National Economy r.dalenov answered in detail all questions of citizens.
delegations of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Geneva took part in this meeting.
the share of expenditures on low-consumption non-food goods and services intended to calculate the subsistence minimum is set at 45 percent of the cost of the minimum consumer basket.
In 2018, we see a high prospect of growth in the development of Kazakhstan's industry: in the manufacturing sectors due to production at the Kashgan field, in connection with the modernization in oil refineries and the food industry, significant investments are observed in fairly short production periods, such as oil refining. in 2018 , we see good prospects for growth in the industry of kazakhstan : in the extractive industry due to the expansion of production at kashagan , in oil refining due to modernization carried out at oil refineries , in the food industry , where a fairly short production cycle , there were serious investments .
technology training, "market size" and "higher education and training."
percentage, increase +, decrease -
The imd rating is the result of a comprehensive study evaluating factors such as economic activity, government efficiency, business efficiency and infrastructure.
As of January 1, 2019, the forecast decrease in Mangistau region will be 3.3% (from 9.2 to 8.9 tenge/m3) to 17.5% (from 31.8 to 26.2 tenge/m3).
On June 29, 2018, a forum was held in Astana on the topic: "State-business partnership as the basis for modernizing the economy."
in addition, according to the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the main directions of regional policy, approved by the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in accordance with it, for the territorial consolidation of the economic and labor resources of Kazakhstan in promising areas, dynamic development of regions, entrepreneurial activity at a high level, in the forecast scheme of spatial development of the country until 2020, which establishes an existing regional policy aimed at ensuring productive employment of the population.
a seminar on investment and development of Kazakhstan, health, education and science, agriculture, internal affairs, representatives of the state revenue committee of the ministry, as well as Kazakhstan "atameken," the Chamber of Foreign Trade, the German society for international cooperation.
the Kazakh delegation at the forum was headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan e. Dossayev, who included the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Swiss Confederation, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Steam Branch and other international organizations in Geneva M. Bailkasimov.
Timur Suleimenov also met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Hungary Peter Siyyarto.
In addition, for the remaining 14 regions from January 1, 2019, it is planned to reduce tariffs in the Karaganda region from 2.2% (from 103.1 to 1000.01 tenge/m2) to 15.3% (from 113.2 to 96 tenge/m2) in the Turkestan region.
rising prices for cotton - by 3.4%, wheat and barley - by 1.9%, wool - by 0.4%.
According to him, the main economic result for 2017 can be called qualitative for the following reasons: 2/3 growth is ensured through untreated industries; almost all domestic industries grew (in 2017 there was a positive growth in 31 industries compared to 22 industries in 2016); in the manufacturing industry, five-year high growth was recorded (in 2017, processing growth amounted to 5.1%); there is significant growth in so-called desired industries (for example, pharmaceuticals by 41.8%); increase of non-primary exports and deep processing of goods.
The meeting was attended by representatives of public organizations "Veterans Organization," "Consumer Protection Association," "Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan," etc.
The First Vice Minister of Economy of Kazakhstan informed the audience about macroeconomic indicators, inflation, price policy, economic growth.
During the meeting, questions were asked about the participation of citizens in the implementation of public-private partnership projects, business opening, the development of electronic commerce, and the creation of statistical information.
he repeated last year's level.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in partnership with the group "Friends in the field of assistance for the development of investments" organized a high-level forum "Eurasian view: development for the development of trade and investment."
Also, the head of the project "Capital - Loyalty Square" J. Zhylkyshiev spoke at the seminar-meeting.
percentage by the end of the period, December of the previous year,
The meeting was attended by the executive director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Kazakhstan doris bradburi, managing partner ernst & young kazakhstan erlan dosymbekov, head of tax and legal practice pwc kazakhstan michael ahern, head of the trade delegation department, first adviser to the federico birochi, ald automotive regional manager marsis maurins, first secretary of the British embassy.
As of February 1, 2019, the country's population was 18 415.5 thousand people, including urban - 10 709.4 thousand (58.2%), rural - 7 706.1 thousand people (41.8%).
gasoline - by 2.6%, coal - by 1.8%, diesel fuel - by 0.8%.
/ official statistical information > operational data (operational information, bulletins) > prices and tariffs
egg prices increased by 12.9%, dairy - by 7.5%, raw milk - by 5.9%.
for the next two years he served as First Vice Minister of National Economy.
this is $86.7 billion, "said the minister.
percentage, increase +, decrease -
car prices - 8.5%, building materials - 8.1%, pharmaceutical products, clothing and shoes, household appliances - 7.8%, textiles - 7.7% for personal goods - 6.8%, cleaning and cleaning products - 6.6%, stationery - 5.9% - 5.4% - for furniture and household goods.
mechanic (fisheries and aquaculture)
Astana city
According to the report, among 140 countries, Kazakhstan takes 59th place (India - 58 and Colombia - 60), which corresponds to the position of 2017 (according to the new methodology and calculations - 59th place).
ganysh cardboard fell by 0.8%, Portland cement - by 0.5%, rice - by 0.4%.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov met with Minister of Foreign Trade Zhamshid Khojayev at the Ministry of National Economy on Tuesday.
Representatives of state bodies, the national chamber of entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "atameken," industry associations and other interested persons are invited for public discussion.
In addition, during a meeting with the district director of Budapest Water Utility, the Jang Suleimen Minister, Timur Suleimen learned about the company's 40-year experience in introducing a water supply improvement system both in terms of system stability and due to less losses in deliveries.
The regional development program includes new target indicators, such as the level of urbanization in areas, "the development gap between regions per capita," "satisfaction of the population with the quality of public and social services."
The measures organized by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) are based on strengthening the capacity of trade policy makers and standardization organizations to minimize the trade impact of neutral measures, while recognizing the relevance of the 2030 sustainable development agenda.
The results of this analysis showed that thanks to the reforms carried out by us on a systematic basis, the total number of checks on legal statistics since 2010 has decreased by 4 times in relation to business entities, "said Zhakupov.
"productivity and efficiency" - 42nd place (decrease to paragraph 4), "labor market" - 13th place (decrease to paragraph 6), "finance" - 42nd place (decrease to paragraph 2), "management practice" - 29th place (decrease to paragraph 15), "relations and values" - 33rd place (decrease to paragraph 22).
Background: The Strategic Council, headed by Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov, consists of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan (MFA, km) and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in accordance with the memorandum of understanding on cooperation in a new phase of national development.
imd-partner in Kazakhstan - "Institute of Economic Research."
The international rating agency moody's approved an independent credit rating with a forecast of "baa3," "stable."
industrial prices increased by 2.6%, wholesale trade - by 0.3%, construction - by 0.1%, and agricultural products decreased by 0.3%.
percentage, increase +, decrease -
Thus, in order to reduce the control burden on business, as well as consolidate state control over offenders and stimulate a bona fide entrepreneur, in 2015, through the Entrepreneurial Code, a scheduled audit was canceled, as well as a transition to the organization of inspections based on a risk assessment system and the institution of partial verification was introduced.
eu is one of the main partners of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of trade and investment.
During the meeting, the participants were presented such projects as the reintroduction of the Turan tiger, environmental education, reducing the risk of natural disasters, improving the competitiveness of the bank, improving local self-government, reducing corruption through "civic monitoring," "sustainable development goals in Kazakhstan."
Also, the head of the Kazakh economic department during a conversation with representatives of the monitoring group, in turn, reported on plans for the implementation of state programs "ray road," "ray land," "iidb, ank" and "digital Kazakhstan," which were positively evaluated by representatives of moody's.
here I call for balance, because we ultimately have to upgrade the infrastructure. here i call for a balance , because we , after all , have to update the infrastructure .
awarded the Order of Honor.
for services to the development of the economy, exemplary service in state bodies, the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov was awarded the Order of Honor.
The work of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs on business training deserves support.
but this fact - the regulator supports this, this is his right, it is independent.
the amendments are also aimed at improving Kazakhstan's position in the doing business rating.
a decrease in prices for garlic - by 37.3%, sweet pepper - by 34.7%, potatoes - by 22.1%, buckwheat - by 20.3%.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs for centralized heating decreased by 3.6%, sewerage - by 2.1%, cold water - by 2%, electricity - by 1.4%, gas transported through distribution networks - by 0.4%, garbage collection - by 0.3%.
the working group consists of representatives of the ministries of national economy, industry and infrastructure development, finance, energy, the national bank, the supreme court, the Atameken NPP and the quasi-state sphere.
gasoline - by 2.2%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 1.7%, diesel fuel - by 1.3%, coal - by 0.5%.
diesel fuel rose by 31.8%, gasoline - by 17.6%, coal - by 17.4%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 8.6%.
Today, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov presented new vice ministers to the staff of the Ministry.
South Korean knowledge sharing (ksp) representative.
Kazakhstan, July 5.
With the adoption of the 2030 sustainable development agenda, world leaders have declared the need to save humanity from poverty, preserve a prosperous planet for future generations and create an open and peaceful society, ensuring decent living conditions for all.
February 12th.
industrial products (at constant prices)
The message of the head of state of October 5, 2018 "on the growth of the well-being of Kazakhstanis: improving the quality of income and life," as part of the execution of the instructions of the Committee on the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, public hearings were held for the population from November 6 to 9, 2018.
the average monthly salary of men working as heads of organizations of all levels amounted to 575 thousand tenge, a translator - 312 thousand tenge, an economist - 238 thousand tenge, an accountant - 186 thousand tenge.
7 . financing of consumer protection societies from the state budget by strengthening the qualification requirements for them under the social order (mandatory availability of experience in the staff of experienced lawyers and economists), ensuring the protection of consumer rights when approving reliable and tariffs.
tobacco prices - by 17.1%, wood - by 2.1%, textiles - by 1.9%, shoes - by 1.2%, tires decreased by 0.7%.
By the decision of the specialized inter-district economic court of Astana dated October 3, 2018, the requirements of the antimonopoly body on forcing Kaztransgaz Zone JSC to execute the order on the return of funds received from the calculation of the correction factor to household and communal consumers since July 2012 were satisfied.
To the qualitative growth of the country's economy in 2017, "thanks to which a record 11.2 million square meters of housing was commissioned; 4 thousand km of roads were created under the Nұrly zhol program; Also, 120 projects were introduced on the country's industrialization map.
this broad range of issues brings together the goals of sustainable development.	this wide range of issues combines one thing - the sustainable development goals .	1,57
- Reform of state control and supervision activities;	- reform of state control and supervision activities ;	1,57
in independent years, 17 people, "including 7 men and 3 women.
prices for building materials increased by 1.3%, plastic - by 1.1%, shoes - by 1.3%, leather - by 1.1%, paper - by 0.6%.
Representatives of the Ministries of Investment and Development, Agriculture, Energy, Finance, Justice, Information and Communications, the Supreme Court, the National Bank, the Governor's Office of Almaty, the Government for Citizens state corporation, as well as international experts took part in the event.
In order to improve the business climate, within the framework of 6 legislative amendments, the ministry proposed to amend article 68 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Architectural, Urban Planning and Construction Activities" and provide the right to organizations that carry out construction and installation work on these power lines to notify about the start of construction and installation work.
the Government must do so.
According to the report, among 140 countries, Kazakhstan ranks 59th (India - 58 and Colombia - 60), which corresponds to the position of 2017 (59th according to calculations according to the new method).
For their contribution to the socio-economic development of the country, conscientious and impeccable activities in the public service, achievements in professional activities, a number of employees of the ministry were awarded "labor veteran," "20 years in the capital," as well as other departmental awards.
percentage, increase +, decrease -
As of October 1, 2018 the country's population was 18,334,3 thousand people, including urban - 10,597,2 thousand (57.8%), rural - 7,737,1 thousand people (42.2%).
this is a limit of 4-6% of the inflation corridor.
cable television services - 11.8%, health services - 6.7%, for legal, private transport insurance services - 6%, for children's pre-school services - 5.7%, for hairdressing and personal service facilities - 5.5%, for catering services - 4.4%, for sanatorium services - 3.6%.
Kazakhstan's economy maintains a positive growth trend. the economy of kazakhstan maintains a positive growth trend .
First Deputy Prime Minister Alikhan Smailov introduced the new Minister Ruslan Dalenov to the staff of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
alcoholic beverages - 10.9%, dairy products - 9.3%, fish and seafood - 6.8% for confectionery, fabric and flour products - 5.8%, sugar - 3.4%, pasta - 2.3%, coffee, tea and cocoa, bread - 1.8% for fruits and vegetables - 1.3%, flour - 0.9%, and cereals decreased by 11.8%.
So, consumers of East Kazakhstan region (Semey) in September 2018 for heat supply services from 70.1 tenge to 68.2 tenge/m2 (- 2.8%), water supply in Zhambyl region - from 48.14 tenge to 40.8 tenge/m3 (-15.2%) and water disposal services - 16.3 tenge/m3 (-0.4%) from 16.4 tenge, respectively.
this is 200.4 billion tenge higher than the approved plan.
- massive reduction of business costs;
In addition, within the framework of the meeting, Timur Suleimenov instructed President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Jin Lycoon to build the saryarka gas pipeline in the city for gasification of the northern regions and the capital of Kazakhstan; A bilateral meeting to discuss the possibility of participating in the implementation of such projects as the construction of the 4th oil refinery with a capacity of up to 6 million tons (previously developed, about 2 billion US dollars).
As of July 1, 2018 the population of the country amounted to 18,272,4 thousand people, including urban - 10,529,1 thousand (57.6%), rural - 7,743,3 thousand people (42.4%).
this is an important work for any public authority. this is an extremely important function for any government agency .
The population of the country as of March 1, 2018 amounted to 18 192.9 thousand people, including urban - 10 452.3 thousand (57.4%), rural - 7 743.6 thousand people (42.6%).
On September 10 of this year, the Commissioner for Ethics with the participation of employees of the Ministry of National Economy and the Director of the Department of Control in the Sphere of Public Service of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption of Tulebayev Ravil Kuanyshbekula held a seminar.
held various positions in the agency of strategic planning, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the Office of the Prime Minister and the Administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
among the CIS countries, Kazakhstan took 2nd place after Russia (43rd place) (59th place).
According to Yermek Alpysov, public investment in Kazakhstan is an important tool for the development of regional and urban infrastructure.
3) the "number of deaths" position remained at the 2017 level (87th place).
From October 23 to October 24, a seminar was organized jointly with the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of the agreement on trade facilitation.
the international rating agency fitch confirmed an independent credit rating at the level of "bbb," the forecast is "stable."
rural development is very important for the regions.
at a meeting of the public council of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, issues of improving the state planning system were discussed.
it is important for them and for energy producers to set reasonable tariffs taking into account investment programs.
growth forecasts for agriculture, construction, trade, transport and warehousing have also been maintained.
The seminar was attended by representatives of Azerbaijan, China, Georgia, Mongolia, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.
The Republic of Kazakhstan has a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Serbia on a free trade zone.
The program was adopted to implement the order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev dated October 5, 2018 to provide long-term liquidity in the amount of at least 600 billion tenge to solve the problem of providing an affordable loan for priority projects announced in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Growth of the well-being of Kazakhstanis: increase of income and quality of life."
in January-September of this year, wheat prices increased by 4.4%, oats - by 4.3%, rye - by 3.9%, corn - by 3.4%, rice - by 2.9%, barley - by 0.8%, and buckwheat - decreased by 9.3%.
Kazakhstan's weak positions defined the following factors: "financial system" - 100 place, "health" - 97 place and "innovative potential" - 87 place.
The Minister congratulated the staff of the Ministry on one of the main holidays of our sovereign state - the day of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in different years, he worked in the tax committee for the Akmola region, the Ministry of State Revenues of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
producer prices for dairy products - 9.2%, livestock meat - 6.6%, tea - 5.4%, rice - 3.7%, bread - 2.2%, fish - by 2.1%, for pasta by 1.4%, of which for cereals - 28.5%, sugar - 24.3%, rye flour - 8.3%, wheat flour - 3%, poultry meat - by 6.9%, vegetable oil - by 6.7%, margarine - by 5.7%.
In order to ensure feedback with the population from November 12 of this year, together with the party "Nұr Otan," "Atameken," subjects of natural monopolies and socially significant markets, it was instructed to organize public reception in regional and district centers, as well as cities of regional and district significance.
in addition to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, two companies are also donors of the program - teneuroil and shell kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of the year, the prices of oil producing enterprises have increased by 34.1%, diesel fuel - by 26.5%, fuel oil - by 21.7%, propane and liquefied butane - by 20.4%, natural gas - by 15.9%, coal - by 11.3%, gasoline - by 1.8%.
the presentation was prepared and developed by the diplomatic secretariat and state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus.
construction and installation work at large plants has also increased, "the minister said.
percentage, increase +, decrease -
lower prices for buckwheat were recorded - 15.9%, black tea - 1.8%, poultry meat - 1.4%, eggs - 1.1%.
Within the framework of the 5th session, the representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who holds the post of adviser to the Minister of Permanent Mission of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the steam office and other international organizations in Geneva, was elected chairman of the management committee for a period of 2 years on trade potential and standards.
the increase in prices for pharmaceutical products is 0.8%, cars - 0.7%, detergents and cleaning products - 0.6%, furniture and household goods, household appliances - 0.5%, clothing and shoes, personal goods - 0.4%, stationery and drawing products, glass and brick products, books, textiles - 0.2%.
The Ministry of National Economy should determine the steps of all state bodies at the central and regional levels, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the Year of Youth in Kazakhstan, a memorandum of understanding was concluded on cooperation between the Kazakhstan Center for Public-Private Partnership JSC and the enactus kazakhstan foundation.
the law provides for measures to mass reduce business costs and improve Kazakhstan's position in the doing business rating.
on the basis of consumer complaints received based on their results to date by the territorial divisions of the committee regarding compliance with legislation in the activities of natural monopolies and socially significant markets for 6 unscheduled inspections, including:
the minimum indicator is expressed in North Kazakhstan (13.17), Pavlodar (15.91) and East Kazakhstan (15.98) regions.
for shoes - by 25.2%, paper - by 13.8%, plastic - by 8.8%, textiles - by 7.6%.
rising prices for ferroalloys - by 23.9%, aluminum - by 9.2%, copper - by 1.3%, their decrease for lead - by 11.5%, zinc - by 4.7%.
In 2017, high values ​ ​ of the average per capita nominal monetary income of the population were noted in the region, where this indicator exceeded the average republican level by 1.9 times.
according to the presented mechanism, the amount of taxable income is reduced by 90%: 25,828 - (25,828 * 90%) = 2,583 tenge.
for failure to comply with the order of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights (hereinafter - the Antimonopoly Committee) on the return of funds in full by the decision of the Maas of Astana on May 30, 2018, Kaztransgaz Zona JSC was brought to administrative responsibility with an administrative fine of more than 2.6 million tenge.
On December 6-7, 2018, the Asian Development Bank and the Asia-Pacific Institute opened in Shanghai (PRC). Central Asian Institute for Economic Cooperation for Central Asian Countries together with the institutions and development of the Asian Development Bank and Asian countries "Preparation of the external environment for electronic commerce: economic, legal and institutional factors."
The meeting participants noted the positive dynamics of economic growth and lending in 2017 and the beginning of 2018, as well as voiced a number of proposals to maintain the achieved rates and further growth in all segments of the economy.
According to him, this event is held only 2 days, but on the topic of the issues under consideration is deeply and diverse: here from the issue of nationalization of tdm in Kazakhstan and the consequences of climate change to indicators of sustainable cities and clean water and sanitation, the so-called "smartsity."
Therefore, on the basis of the court's decision, since July 2012 consumers have the right to apply to the relevant production branches of Kaztransgaz Zone JSC on the issues of refunds received from the calculation of the correction coefficient.
The corresponding amendment is contained in the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity," proposed by the Minister of National Economy to the deputies of the Majilis of Parliament during the plenary session of the lower house on February 14.
the event was organized by the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the "Institute of Economic Research," the "Center for Research on Applied Economics" see and the LLP "Consulting Group Perspective."
standard & poor's assigns ratings on an international scale (on obligations of national and foreign ratings) in the CIS countries and on national schools created specifically for each particular country (currently for Russia and Kazakhstan).
diesel fuel - by 7.5%, liquefied gas in cylinders rose in price by 4.2%, and gasoline fell in price by 1.3%.
During the meetings, the subjects of natural monopolies reported in detail to consumers on the implementation of the tariff estimate and the investment program and the work performed over the past 3 years, the use of funds from the provision of services, the fulfillment of investment obligations undertaken, and also spoke about the quantitative and qualitative indicators of enterprises.
in addition, according to the forecast, the economic growth rate in 2018-2021 will average 3% against the backdrop of rising public investment and an increase in exports associated with a significant improvement in the forecast of oil prices and an increase in production at the field.
discussion of the bill, the "civil alliance of Kazakhstan" association of legal entities, the national chamber of entrepreneurs "Atameken," the Public Fund "Fund for the Development of Parliamentarism in Kazakhstan," the "People's Anti-Corruption Committee" public fund, the center of applied research "demand," Representatives of the international organization "expo & women," the alliance of bloggers of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of the parties, buudb, usaid "energy of the future," fintech4good and other organizations acted as speakers.
Compared to 2007, the number of births increased by 21.2% (men - by 21.7%, girls - by 20.5%), urban - by 30.1%, rural - by 10.7%.
The 10th meeting of the Strategic Advisory Council of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was chaired by the Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov on Thursday.
Representatives of Astana Mayor's Office, Ministries of Health, Energy, Foreign Affairs, Industry and Infrastructure Development took part in the seminar.
Since 2012, the permanent round table on accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) has become a platform for discussion on a wide range of WTO accession issues.
As a result of the State policy to diversify the crops of priority crops carried out during the years of independence, the area of ​ ​ oilseeds in the country increased 9.4 times and in 2018 tentatively amounted to 2.8 million hectares, which is almost equal to the territories of countries such as Singapore, Cyprus, Bahrain and Kuwait.
In addition, an agreement was reached on the exchange of views at the expert level and the establishment of a constant dialogue on improving the conditions of global trade, improving the mechanisms of the international trading system, taking into account the holding of a ministerial conference in the Republic of Kazakhstan (the highest body of the WTO) in 2020.
The main factors supporting Kazakhstan's rating are the presence of positive balance sheet indicators developed due to additional revenues of the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as public debt, the total volume of which in the next 4 years does not exceed the external liquid assets of Kazakhstan.
As of December 20, 2018, the water tariff for the population was reduced in the Zhambyl region by 22% (from 52.3 to 40.8 tenge/3).
So, in his message to the people of Kazakhstan of October 5, 2018, "increasing the well-being of Kazakhstanis: improving the quality of income and life," focusing on increasing the efficiency of spending in these areas, Timur Suleimen paid special attention to expanding state support for education and health care.
According to the results of 2017, much attention is paid to the early development and mass coverage of preschool training of children by increasing the network of preschool institutions covered by 90.4% of children of the corresponding age.
price increase for stationery and drawing equipment by 10%, cars - 9.2%, glass and brick products - 8.9% on, books, clothing and shoes - 8% for textiles - 7%, pharmaceuticals - 6.6%, newspapers and magazines - 6.5%, detergents and cleaning products - 6.3%, personal goods - 6.2%, furniture and household goods - 5.8%, for household appliances - 5.5%.
for leather - by 4.2%, textiles - by 3.5%, building materials - by 2.2%, wood - by 1.6%, plastic - by 1.5%.
as well as Deputy Director of the Department of Strategic Planning B. Turlybekov reported to local executive bodies on the new strategic map of key national indicators for the approval of indicators of the country's strategic development plan until 2025, with a decomposition to the following documents of the state planning system.
preparatory work needs to begin now, "said the Minister of National Economy.
passenger travel by air rose by 15.6%, intercity bus - by 4.9%, rail - by 3.6%, inner city bus - by 3.1%.
industrial prices in January-December increased by 12.4%, agricultural products - by 7.8%, wholesale trade - by 5.6%, construction - by 3.9%.
however, most of Iran's export demand products are included in the list of preferential goods, which means a 25% reduction in the VAT rate when they are imported from developing countries and least developed countries, including Iran.
the amount of mandatory pension contributions in the amount of 10% of this amount, i.e. KZT6,013, remains - KZT54,112.
during which the employees of the legal department of the Ministry issued normative legal acts, Rules for amendments and amendments to the Rules for Coordination, State Registration and their Liquidation, Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated October 6, 2016 No. 568, development of draft regulatory legal acts in addition to the law, approved by resolutions 569, rules of coordination, as well as amendments and additions made to the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
stable forecast determines the forecast of s & p: in the next two years, the state and external balances will be stable.
I want to say to the leaders of the regions: until 2019. With the start of distribution, we will develop a pool of projects so that we can quickly transfer money to you; then you can transmit it through razvitiye fund directly to specific people, people and so on.
In turn, the wise junus is faced with the task of overseeing issues of international economic integration and international cooperation, trade and foreign trade activities.
that is, from January 1, 2019, any taxpayer using a VAT control account will be able to return the entire amount of excess VAT.
So, in accordance with the law on the development of local self-government (hereinafter - MP) adopted in 2017, the budget and communal property of the GP from January 1, 2018 were introduced in rural districts with a population of more than 2 thousand people, and from January 1, 2020 will be introduced everywhere.
in the expanded composition, the main target macroeconomic indicators for the development of the economies of the CIS member states in 2018 and various aspects of the implementation of the program of international comparisons in the commonwealth countries based on parity of purchasing power of currencies were considered.
maktaarat
in December
by December
that is, not to raise the tariff annually, "the minister said.
Since the beginning of the year, the prices of oil producers have increased by 24%, diesel fuel - by 23.1%, liquefied propane and butane - by 17.4%, fuel oil - by 15.9%, natural gas - by 12.4%, coal - by 7.8%, metal ores - by 2.8%, gasoline - by 1.6%.
This year, in the report "Doing Business 2019: Training and Reforms," Kazakhstan entered the top 30 countries of the world in terms of ease of doing business.
A meeting of the strategic advisory council of the Government of Kazakhstan and the Steam Development Program (UNDP) was held at the Ministry of National Economy under the chairmanship of Vice Minister of National Economy Madi Takiev.
Astana Economic Forum is one of the engines of Kazakhstan's new international positioning system in the world intellectual arena. the astana economic forum is becoming one of the driving forces of the new system of international positioning of kazakhstan in the world intellectual arena .
agriculture, forestry and fisheries; education; public administration and defence; compulsory social security; health and social services; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; manufacturing industry; construction; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; information and communication; mining and quarrying; Accommodation and nutrition services; b. and insurance activities; transport and warehousing.
agriculture, forestry and fisheries; public administration and defence; compulsory social security; education; health and social services; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; transport and warehousing; manufacturing industry; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; Accommodation and nutrition services; b. and insurance activities; construction; information and communication; mining and quarrying.
agriculture, forestry and fisheries; public administration and defence; compulsory social security; education; health and social services; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; transport and warehousing; manufacturing industry; Accommodation and nutrition services; information and communication; construction; b. and insurance activities; mining and quarrying.
agriculture, forestry and fisheries; public administration and defence; compulsory social security; education; health and social services; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; manufacturing industry; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; Accommodation and nutrition services; transport and warehousing; b. and insurance activities; construction; information and communication; mining and quarrying.
agriculture, forestry and fisheries; public administration and defence; compulsory social security; health and social services; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; education; manufacturing industry; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; transport and warehousing; construction; b. and insurance activities; Accommodation and nutrition services; information and communication; mining and quarrying.
public administration and defence; compulsory social security; agriculture, forestry and fisheries; education; health and social services; information and communication; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; manufacturing industry; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; transport and warehousing; b. and insurance activities; construction; Accommodation and nutrition services; mining and quarrying.
public administration and defence; compulsory social security; agriculture, forestry and fisheries; education; health and social services; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; manufacturing industry; transport and warehousing; Accommodation and nutrition services; construction; information and communication; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; b. and insurance activities; mining and quarrying.
public administration and defence; compulsory social security; education; health and social services; agriculture, forestry and fisheries; power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning; manufacturing industry; Accommodation and nutrition services; transport and warehousing; construction; wholesale and retail trade; repair of cars and motorcycles; information and communication; b. and insurance activities; mining and quarrying.
In 2018, Kazakhstan will maintain the 40th position in the ranking in terms of gross domestic product, provided for by purchasing power parity.
cable television services - 11.4%, legal, private transport insurance services - 6%, for medical services of preschool institutions - 5.5%, for hairdressing and personal services - 4.3%, sanatorium services - 3.8%, higher education - 3.6%, subscriber fees for cellular services, Internet access - 3.1%.
thus, one of the main points to be evaluated in the near future is "stimulating lifelong learning opportunities for all and ensuring equitable quality education for all" - TDM No. 4.
in% to previous year
salaries of health workers increased to 28 percent, education workers - to 29 percent, social protection workers - to 40 percent, civil servants of the B corps - by 30 percent, scholarships - by 25 percent.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged information on the foreign trade turnover of the two countries and discussed promising areas of bilateral cooperation.
The Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the World Bank Group presented the subnational report "doing business."
On Friday, May 25, as part of the educational program for retraining party personnel of the central apparatus of the Nұr Otan party, the First Vice Minister of National Economy, the Dalen, held a lecture for students of the Nur Otan Party Academy of Political Management.
More information about the results of the rating can be found on the official website of the International Institute for the Development of Management http:// www.imd.org/wcc/.
Kazakhstan also supported the goals of sustainable development (tdm), guided by the fact that the guidelines of the pair document fully correspond to the priorities and tasks of the country outlined in the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the national plan "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms," five social initiatives of the head of state and the program "Modernization of public consciousness."
percentage, increase +, decrease -
According to experts fitch, economic growth in 2018 will be at 3.8% due to the continued positive dynamics in the oil and gas and mining sectors and an increase in domestic consumption due to an increase in real wages and lending.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies from Kazakhstan, heads of the Kazakhstan Center for Public-Private Partnership of White and Baiterek nux White, Kazakhstan project propaganda fund (kppf), as well as representatives of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
In recent years, he worked as deputy head of the department of state control and territorial and organizational work of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
within the framework of these events, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Austria and others, members of Parliament, representatives of the Austrian Court of Audit, the Federal Ministry of Civil Service and Sports, the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research, as well as representatives of 25 EU countries dealing with gender budgeting, leading specialists of the Ministries of Economic and Economic Development, 4 international organizations and the European Union Research Institute.
September 28th.
As you know, the bill is aimed at fulfilling the order of the head of state "increasing the well-being of Kazakhstanis: increasing income and quality of life" of October 5, 2018, as well as the instructions of the Security Council of November 7, 2018 on establishing tariffs and transparency in the use of consumer funds and the need to strengthen the implementation by monopolists of tariff estimates and investment program measures.
Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov as part of the execution of the order of the head of state regarding the streamlining of the work of the antimonopoly department, given at a meeting of the Security Council in akorda on November 7 of this year by the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan on identified violations in the field of tariff formation for utilities of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Accountability of officials of the Competition and Consumer Protection Committee and its territorial divisions.
In January-February 2018, the largest share in the total retail trade in the republic falls on the city of Almaty (32.1%), the capital (10.5%), Karaganda (9.6%) and East Kazakhstan region (8.2%).
they talked a lot about this.
a couple of million tenge
percentage, increase +, decrease -
by November
vegetables - by 20.6%, tobacco - by 5.6%, sausages - by 4.8%, coffee - by 4.2%, fish - by 3.2%, poultry meat - by 2.5%, tea - by 2.4%, margarine - by 2%, vegetable oil fell by 0.6%.
During 2017, for wholesale trade enterprises (with more than 50 employees) in the Zhambyl and Aktobe regions, domestic goods exceed imported ones (88.0% and 81.1%, respectively), and in other regions the share of imported products exceeds the volume of locally produced goods.
Given the fact that level IV of the budget was introduced, only 9 months have passed and the akims of the rural district for the first time exercise their functions in managing independent budgets and communal property, they have a number of practical issues.
price
he spoke about the work within the framework of the aid in Kazakhstan, the prospects of cooperation in the field of information technologies, construction, energy, finance, agriculture, tourism and other areas.
In his speech, Zhumagulov noted that in order to implement effective and full-format reforms in the field of urban development, 51 proposals were given, the main part of which is included in the road map, which is currently being implemented.
+, decrease -
prices in industry increased by 2.9%, agricultural products - by 2.2%, wholesale trade - by 0.6%, construction - by 0.3%.
3 . public monitoring of investment program activities through visits to housing and communal facilities by representatives of akimats, mass media, Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, consumer protection societies (hereinafter - LGC) and consumers.
infrastructure
percentage, increase +, decrease -
Director of the Department for the Development of Foreign Trade Activities Zhanel Kushukova on the Khabar 24 TV channel: "How to increase the competitiveness of Kazakh manufacturers?" on the abolition of import excise tax on non-alcoholic products in Uzbekistan.
The average per capita nominal cash income of the population in January 2018 was estimated at 8,1192 tenge, which is 5.5% higher than in January 2017, and real cash income for this period decreased by 1.2%.
cable television services - by 9.1%, legal, private vehicle insurance services - 6%, sanatorium services - 5.1%, amusement park services - 5%, children's preschool services - 4.6%, health services - 3.8%, hairdressing and personal services - by 3.6%, mobile services - by 3.1%.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Astana Public Fund, League, Veteran, Kameda, Alliance of Citizens of Kazakhstan, etc.
the cost of Portland Zemet increased by 6.5%, sheet glass - by 3.7%, sand and ferrous metals - by 2.6%, timber - by 2.4%, bitumen - by 1.9%, pipes - by 1.4%, bricks - by 1%.
in% to previous year
in the Republic of Kazakhstan
During the conversation with the Minister of Foreign Trade of the Republic of Uzbekistan J. Khozhaev, the prospects of further cooperation between the two countries, trade and economic issues, in particular, issues of growth of mutual trade and creation of favorable conditions for foreign trade were discussed.
November 01, 2018, capital, Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan
for September
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan timur Suleimenov held a meeting with members of the government of the Hungarian republic and representatives of the largest companies in this country.
During the event, the current state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Serbian cooperation in the areas of trade and investment, veterinary science, construction, transport, etc.
According to the results of 2018, Kazakhstan intends to move from 57th to 45th place in the ranking of the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum (def gi), "said Baurzhan Turlybekov, deputy director of the department of strategic planning and analysis of the Ministry of National Economy, in his report.
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the negotiations.
taxation
The head of state charged "100 concrete steps on realization of five institutional reforms" within the 98th step of the Plan of the nation to introduce the independent budget of local government at the level of the cities of regional value, villages, settlements, rural districts.
source: strategy2050.kz
storage of existing tariff plans (packages) within three years after the conclusion of the transaction; availability of additional services for subscribers; Extension of the 4g network in rural areas (with a population of 4,000 or more) until 2021; Implementation of 5g service standards no later than December 31, 2021.
The Khia Astana Economic Forum will be held from May 17 to 19.
At the beginning of 2018 - youth of Almaty (15-28 years old) (52.6 thousand men and 219.5 thousand women), Shymkent (102 thousand men and 106.9 thousand women) and the capital (102.5 thousand men and 112.6 thousand women).
On February 15, 2019, the Department of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the city of Almaty held a briefing on changes in bills and reduced tariffs for services of subjects of natural monopolies in the city of Almaty.
also during the meeting, a draft set of joint actions of the CIS member states on the prevention and control of avian influenza and Newcastle diseases for the period up to 2025 was discussed.
the basic pension as a whole increased by 29 per cent, the solidarity pension increased by 32 per cent, the birth benefit increased by 37 per cent and the benefits for disabled and survivors increased by 43 per cent.
The maximum salary of 13,192,4 thousand tenge is mining and quarrying and in the fields of insurance and other types of manufacturing.
graduated from the International School of Business with a Bachelor of Science in International Economics (jönköping University, Sweden), York University with a Master of Science in Economics (University of York, UK), Nottingham University with a Master of Philosophy in Economics (the University of nottingham, UK).
the main factor in the decrease in retail electricity prices is the decrease in wholesale prices at electricity stations of the Ministry of Energy, the share of wholesale prices of stations in the structure of retail prices reaches 60%.
the price level increased by 0.9%% for legal, private vehicle insurance services, health services - by 0.7%%, catering services, preschool services - by 0.6%, hairdressing and private services.
in relation to tariffs for services of natural monopolies, the Ministry achieved a decrease in the average annual increase in utility tariffs last year from 8.6% in 2017 to 2.45%.
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 506 infants died in January-April 2018 and amounted to 46.2% of the total number of infants.
Vice Minister of National Economy met with the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of Mongolia in the capital.
On behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the agreement was signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In the framework of increasing the competitiveness of domestic producers of products, within the framework of the State Program for the Development of the Bank for 2017-2021, which developed it, a measure of state support will be created by compensating part of the costs (30%) for investments invested in the modernization of production at sugar factories and confectionery factories.
On September 7, a sovereign credit rating was confirmed by a "stable" outlook at "bbb-/a-3."
On September 13-14 of this year, under the leadership of the Vice Minister of National Economy A. Zhumagulov, a seminar-meeting was held with the participation of representatives of central state and local executive bodies, national companies, holdings and other organizations on the development of a draft Forecast Scheme for the spatial development of the country until 2030.
Issues of financing the economy were discussed at a meeting of the public council of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
fruits and nuts rose in price from imported products - by 58.7%, poultry meat - by 19.7%, fish - by 12.3%, tea - by 8.5%, sugar - by 2.2%, cocoa - by 6.6%, margarine - by 3%, vegetable oil - by 2.3%, pasta - by 2.2%, coffee - by 1.5%.
if earlier in the old ranking 70% of indicators were through the questionnaire, now, on the contrary, 70% of indicators will be based on statistics, "said B. Turlibekov, Deputy Director of the Department of Strategic Planning and Analysis of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I am sure that our negotiations will give a new impetus to mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and China. i am confident that our negotiations will give a new impetus to mutually beneficial cooperation between kazakhstan and china .
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that 53 unscheduled inspections have been launched against monopolists in order to identify the unjustified income of monopolists and their return to consumers, including in the following areas:
as of December) - by 2.9%, non-food goods - by 2.5%, paid services - by 2.4%.
in some regions, together with the "Institute of Economic Research" of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (August 14-15 - Shymkent, Turkestan and the Zhambyl region, August 16-17 - Almaty, Almaty and Kyzylorda regions, August 23-24, 2018 - Mangistau, Atyrau, training and zko) for representatives of local executive bodies, masliat, regional
%
-
-0,1
-0,2
-0,3
-0,4
-0,5
-0,6
-0,7
-0,8
-0,9
-1
-1,0
-1,1
-1,2
-1,3
-1,4
-1,5
-1,6
-1,7
-1,8
-1,9
-10,0
-10,2
-10,3
-10,4
-10,5
-10,8
-11,2
-11,5
-11,7
-12,1
-12,7
-12,8
-12,9
-13,1
-13,2
-13,3
-13,6
-13,7
-14,0
-14,3
-14,4
-14,5
-14,9
-15,0
-15,3
-15,31
-15,5
-15,9
-16,0
-16,6
-16,8
-17,2
-17,4
-17,5
-17,6
-18,4
-18,8
-19,0
-19,4
-19,7
-19,8
-2,2
-2,3
-2,4
-2,7
-2,8
-2,9
-20,2
-21,1
-21,4
-21,5
-22,7
-23,1
-23,4
-23,7
-23,86
-24,1
-24,2
-26,5
-26,8
-27,39
-3,0
-3,1
-3,3
-3,5
-3,6
-3,8
-3,9
-30,9
-35,3
-35,8
-37,5
-39,2
-4,0
-4,3
-4,5
-4,6
-4,7
-4,8
-41,8
-5,1
-5,2
-5,3
-5,6
-5,7
-5,8
-51,1
-6
-6,0
-6,1
-6,2
-6,6
-6,7
-6,8
-6,9
-7,1
-7,4
-7,6
-7,7
-7,9
-8,5
-8,7
-8,8
-8,9
-9,0
-9,1
-9,2
-9,3
-9,6
-9,7
...
0,0
0,04
0,07
0,1
0,2
0,3
0,4
0,5
0,6
0,7
0,78
0,8
0,9
1,0
1,1
1,2
1,3
1,35
1,4
1,5
1,6
1,7
1,8
1,9
10,0
10,02
10,1
10,2
10,3
10,4
10,5
10,6
10,66
10,7
10,8
100,0
100,1
100,2
100,3
100,4
100,6
100,7
100,8
100,9
101,0
101,1
101,2
101,3
101,4
101,6
101,7
101,8
101,9
102,0
102,1
102,2
102,4
102,5
102,6
102,7
102,8
102,9
103,0
103,1
103,2
103,3
103,4
103,5
103,6
103,7
103,8
103,9
10348,44
104,0
104,1
104,2
104,3
104,4
104,6
104,7
104,8
104,9
105,0
105,1
105,2
105,3
105,4
105,5
105,6
105,7
105,8
105,9
106,0
106,1
106,2
106,4
106,5
106,6
106,8
106,9
107,0
107,1
107,2
107,3
107,4
107,5
107,6
107,7
107,9
108,0
108,1
108,2
108,3
108,4
108,5
108,6
109,0
109,2
109,4
109,6
109,7
11,0
11,1
11,16
11,2
11,3
11,4
11,5
11,6
11,7
11,8
11,9
110,0
110,1
110,4
110,5
110,6
110,7
110,8
111,1
111,2
111,5
111,6
111,8
111,9
112,9
113,0
113,1
113,4
113,8
113,9
114,0
114,1
114,6
114,8
114,9
115,0
115,2
115,8
11619,54
117,0
118,7
119,0
119,5
119,9
12,0
12,1
12,2
12,3
12,4
12,5
12,6
12,7
12,8
12,9
120,1
120,84
120,9
121,3
121,49
121,5
121,8
123,2
123,7
124,1
127,8
128,9
129,8
13,0
13,1
13,2
13,3
13,5
13,6
13,8
13,9
130,61
130,9
135,99
14,1
14,12
14,13
14,2
14,3
14,4
14,5
14,65
14,7
14,8
14,9
142,2
15,0
15,3
15,5
15,6
15,72
15,8
15,9
15024,67
152,56
16,0
16,1
16,2
16,3
16,4
16,5
16,6
16,8
16,9
17,0
17,1
17,3
17,4
17,5
17,6
17,8
17,99
171,73
17740,19
178,64
18,1
18,2
18,3
18,4
18,5
18,6
18,7
18,8
18,9
19,0
19,1
19,2
19,3
19,5
19,6
19,64
19,7
19,8
19,9
191,56
2,0
2,1
2,2
2,3
2,4
2,5
2,6
2,7
2,8
2,9
20,2
20,3
20,4
20,8
20,9
21,0
21,07
21,2
21,3
21,4
21,5
21,6
21,8
21,9
210,52
213,4
22,2
22,3
22,4
22,6
22,8
22,9
23,0
23,2
23,3
23,4
23,7
23,8
23,9
24,0
24,4
24,6
24,8
24,9
25,1
25,3
25,32
25,4
25,5
25,6
26,0
26,1
26,3
26,5
26,8
26,9
27,17
27,3
27,4
27,5
27,7
27,8
27,9
28,1
28,3
28,6
28,8
28269,69
2862,32
29,1
29,3
29,4
29,5
29,8
29,9
3,0
3,1
3,2
3,3
3,4
3,5
3,6
3,7
3,8
3,9
30,0
30,2
30,24
30,3
30,7
30,9
31,1
31,4
31,6
31,7
31,8
31,9
32,0
32,4
32,6
32,9
32474,28
33,2
33,4
33,5
33,7
33,9
34,0
34,1
34,6
34475,2
35,0
35,2
35,21
35,3
35,6
35,8
35788,49
36,0
36,2
36,5
36,6
36,8
36103,97
37,0
37,3
37,7
37,8
3759,13
38,1
38,2
38,4
38,6
38,7
39,2
39,3
4,0
4,1
4,2
4,3
4,4
4,5
4,6
4,7
4,8
4,9
40,0
40,1
40,5
41,0
41,5
41,6
42,5
43,7
43,8
4397,33
4433,51
45,3
45,4
4533,83
46,4
47,1
48,8
5,0
5,1
5,2
5,3
5,4
5,5
5,6
5,7
5,8
5,9
50,3
50,7
51,9
5166,45
5192,08
52,0
52,1
52,6
53,5
53,6
53,7
5353,26
54,4
55,3
55,5
55,7
55,9
5554,52
57,0
57,4
57,75
58,1
58,35
59,3
59,5
6,0
6,1
6,2
6,3
6,4
6,5
6,6
6,64
6,7
6,75
6,8
6,9
6,93
60,0
6105,99
62,39
62,6
62,69
64,4
6558,43
67,3
67,7
68,2
68,3
7,0
7,1
7,2
7,3
7,38
7,4
7,45
7,49
7,5
7,6
7,7
7,8
7,9
71,2
71,3
7115,44
74,6
74,99
76,4
77,8
7881,3
79,1
8,0
8,1
8,2
8,3
8,4
8,5
8,6
8,7
8,8
8,9
82,4
82,62
83,2
83,27
85,5
86,2
87,8
8764,39
89,5
9,1
9,2
9,3
9,4
9,5
9,6
9,7
9,8
9,9
90,4
90,7
9027,2
91,4
92,5
93,4
93,5
94,0
94,5
94,7
94,8
95,1
95,3
95,4
95,7
95,9
96,0
96,2
96,6
96,7
97,0
97,1
98,3
98,7
98,8
98,9
9840,89
99,2
99,3
99,4
99,5
99,6
99,7
99,8
99,9
primeminister.kz
www.primeminister.kz
Astana
budget
retail trade (at constant prices)
wages, tenge
trade
tenge
to the boiler
November
So, as part of the ongoing work on the "opening of enterprises" indicator, since 2013, registration of commercial organizations belonging to small businesses has been introduced as a notification through the e-government web portal.
The volume of cargo turnover in January 2019 amounted to 47.3 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 4.2% compared to January 2018.
cable television services - 11.4%, legal, private vehicle insurance services - 6%, for children's pre-school services - 5.2%, health services - 5%, amusement park services - 4.9%, sanatorium services - 4.2%, hairdressing and personal services - 4%, higher education - 3.6%, cellular services - 3.1%.
According to the def assessment, Kazakhstan's competitiveness is at an average level in the following factors: "act" - 44th place, "market size" - 45th place, "knowledge and skills" - 57th place, "goods market" - 57th place, "institutions" - 61st place and "macroeconomic stability" - 62nd place and "infrastructure" - 69th place.
On September 29, 2018, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the republican cycle track "Saryarka" for the cup of the chairman of the branch of the party "Nұr Otan" in futsal, volleyball, table tennis "Kazakhstan is a sports country!" Annual tournament.
the court's decision can be found on the official website of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan (http:// sud.gov.kz).
The volume of cargo turnover for January-February 2018 amounted to 88.5 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 9.4% compared to January-February 2017.
According to A. Zhakupov, today the share of imported goods in the structure of the consumer price index in Kazakhstan is 24%, imported non-food goods - 15%, which indicates the negative possible impact of exchange rate fluctuations on inflation.
In accordance with the methodology for maintaining the ranking of regions and cities by ease of doing business (hereinafter - the methodology), the assessment was carried out at two levels: regional (14 regions and cities of the capital, Almaty and Shymkent) and district (160 districts and 37 cities of regional significance, including administrative centers of the regions)
According to respondents, the five most attractive factors of the economy of the republic: strategic stability and predictability of the situation (57.8%), a favorable business environment (55.6%), a dynamic economy (46.7% of respondents), an effective tax system (41.1%) and effective labor relations (32.2%).
compared to countries of the same level, Kazakhstan has high indicators on macroeconomic stability, "act," "labor market," "market volume," "knowledge and skills," and "business intensity" factors.
in the field of housing and communal services, electricity tariffs increased by 3.6%, centralized heating, hot water - 3.5% each, garbage collection - by 3%, housing content - by 2.2%, gas transported through distribution networks - by 1.9%, cold water - by 0.9%, sewerage - by 0.8%.
The subject of the program is financial and methodological support for business incubators: 50% of operating costs are financed, but not more than 35 million tenge per year; methodological support with the involvement of foreign experts for the effective creation of the business incubator.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, in the framework of the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 31, 2017 "Third Modernization of Kazakhstan: Global Competitiveness," the Ministry of National Economy, together with the Institute of Economic Research JSC, has been rating regions and cities in terms of ease of doing business since 2017.
in addition, from January 1, 2019, tariffs for the population in the remaining 16 regions will be introduced in Pavlodar region at 3% (from 20.78 to 20.16 tenge/m3), North Kazakhstan region (from 69.47 to 67.39 tenge/m3) and Aktobe region (from 64.14 to 62.17 tenge/m3) to 11.4% in Kyzylorda region (from 54.07 to 47.07 tenge).
this is a modern, scientific and educational, business center of the republic, attractive for investors, a leader in the economic development of our country, "the minister said.
the bill also proposes to reduce the period of inspections from 30 to 15 days according to a special procedure and preliminary control with a visit to the subject (object), from 30 to 10 days of unscheduled inspections.
On October 16 of this year, a new format seminar-meeting was organized for employees of the departments of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption in Mangistau region and the department of the Consumer Protection Committee in Mangistau region.
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, this document was signed by Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov.
As a result of the processing of information submitted by migration authorities, in January 2018, the number of registered arrivals for permanent residence in the country decreased by 9.2% compared to January 2017 and amounted to 1,360 people.
"doing business" of the World Bank during the visit of the working group "international trade," "obtaining a building permit," "connecting to the power supply system, taxation," "resolving insolvency, obtaining a loan," "opening enterprises, registering property," "enforcing contracts," protecting minority investors "and indicators" labor market regulation. "
This year, a strategic development plan until 2025 has been adopted, which launched the third process of modernizing the country and sets the task of accelerating high-quality economic development and improving the standard of living in the country, "Dalenov said.
The volume of cargo turnover in January-December 2018 amounted to 596.1 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 7.3% compared to January-December 2017.
representatives of the white Kazakhstan Copper Center will tell in the plot of the Khabar 24 television channel what social objects the state will transfer to trust management
the level of prices for legal services, insurance of personal vehicles - 6% each, services of preschool institutions - 3.2%, health care - 2.9%, hairdressers and places of personal service - 2.5%, catering services - 1.1%.
Currently, according to analysts, an increase in oil and oil production prices, combined with a reduction in transfers to the budget according to budget rules, will help strengthen the region's assets from 2018.
the average salary of a teacher at a university in the country amounted to 137 thousand tenge, and the difference between the regions is 2.7 times, and teachers in the secondary education system and primary school - 114 thousand tenge and 1.6 times, respectively, the teacher - 78 thousand tenge and 1.5 times.
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 782 infants died in January-June 2018 and amounted to 48.1% of the total number of infant deaths.
in addition, the head of state held a meeting with the heads of companies "icell," "Budapest water utility" and "creatio."
During the session, activities on trade and standards, possible contribution to the implementation of the sustainable development agenda until 2030, implementation of decisions taken at the 4th meeting of the steering committee were discussed.
From January 1, 2019, citizens will be able to see reduced tariffs in receipts in February 2019, since utilities will be concluded upon their provision at the end of the month.
in the direction of information (reference, information, statements, declaration, notifications and other completed documents) to remove various reporting burdens from the business, it is planned to reduce by 30%.
According to the Vice Minister, the agenda for sustainable development until 2030 is a global program, for the successful implementation of which it is important to unite the whole society, including the non-governmental sector.
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 1,586 infants died in January-December 2017 and amounted to 50.3% of the total number of infant deaths.
July 11 - The Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan completed consideration of the application of Kazakhtelecom JSC for the buyback of 75% of kcell white voting shares.
On September 27, 2018, the 8th meeting of the Kazakh-Spanish intergovernmental mixed commission on cooperation in the field of economy and industry was held in Astana under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan and the Secretary General for Trade of Spain shian margarid mendes bertolo.
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 146 infants died in January 2018 and amounted to 46.1% of the total number of infants.
2) "reliability of the police service" to position 2 (from 86 to 84);
Kazakhstan also showed positive dynamics in the following factors: "infrastructure" (69th place, 2017 - 72nd place) and "labor market" - (30th place, 2016 - 33rd place), "financial system" - (100th place, 2016 - 102nd place).
priority industries for investment are mining and quarrying (33.8%), transport and warehousing (14.4%), real estate operations (12.9%) and manufacturing (10.9%).
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 261 children died in January-February 2018 and amounted to 44.5% of the total number of infant deaths.
the main cause of infant mortality is cases arising in the perinatal period, from which 1,455 infants died in January-November 2017 and amounted to 50.2% of the total number of infant deaths.
the minister congratulated the staff of the ministry on the 20th anniversary of the capital and presented the most outstanding employees of the department with the anniversary medal "Astana 20 years," the medal "Veteran of Labor," the badge "Best Public Servant" for their contribution to the socio-economic development of the country, conscientious and impeccable public service and achieving professional results.
Member of the Board (Minister) for Economics and Financial Policy Timur Zhaksylykov noted the need to create data and data for regulating the service market in 43 economic areas operating in a single market format.
The meeting was organized at the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of National Economy.
Men aged 15 years and older spend an average of 5 hours 29 minutes per day on work, for women this figure is 4 hours 34 minutes, but women (4 hours 14 minutes) spend more time on housekeeping than men (1 hour 28 minutes).
barley, corn, soybeans (fixed at 5-10%),
Thus, to date, 40 monopolists in the field of heat supply, water supply, supply and electricity have decided to reduce the tariff by 28.8 billion tenge.
among the regions, residents of the Zhambyl region spend an average of 9 hours 48 minutes on sleep, and below - residents of the South Kazakhstan region - 8 hours 42 minutes.
At the same time, for 20 years, the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy has a great merit, which invests its efforts and knowledge in advancing the issue of gender equality, "said M. Zhunisbekova.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs for centralized heating, hot water - 3.5% each, electricity - 3.4%, garbage collection - 3%, housing content - 2.2%, gas transported through distribution networks - 1.9%, cold water - 0.9%, sewerage - 0.8%.
In this regard, starting from July 27, 2018, Kazakhstani manufacturers are obliged to pay an import customs duty of $340 per 1 ton when importing white sugar.
The meeting participants noted the positive dynamics of the general economic situation following the results of 2017 and voiced a number of proposals to preserve the dynamics received and further growth of all segments of the economy.
On December 26, 2018, the regional central communications service of Turkestan held a briefing on tariff reduction and the introduction of compensation tariffs for natural monopolies in the Turkestan region.
In 2017, the difference between the maximum and minimum per capita nominal monetary incomes of the population by region amounted to 3.6 times (in 2016 - 3.3 times).
Asian Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, World Bank, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, national company "kazakh invest," international scientific complex "Astana," damu research group, center of strategic initiatives, center of applied research "demand," "atameken."
As a result of the processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, the number of people born in January-February 2018 amounted to 63.1 thousand people, which is 3.3% more than in January-February 2017.
On July 4, a joint statement was signed in Berlin on the intention to continue cooperation in the direction of improving the skills of senior officials in the field of economics between the Federal Ministry of Economy and Energy of the German Republic and the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - paragraphs).
As a result of the processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, the number of people born in January-November 2017 amounted to 359.6 thousand people, which is 4.9% less than in January-November 2016.
The implementation of the Rural Cradle project until 2025 will modernize the social and engineering infrastructure of more than 1.8 thousand rural settlements, where 5.5 million people live today.
The volume of cargo turnover in January-August 2018 amounted to 386.2 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 9.1% compared to January-August 2017.
The volume of cargo turnover for January-September 2018 amounted to 438.1 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 8.9% compared to January-September 2017.
In 2017, systemic measures were also carried out to further re-regulate the business, which laid the foundation for the law adopted this year on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on the change in output indices for the main sectors: agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to more than 60%.
T. Suleimenov also recalled that from January 1, 2019, the initiative of the head of state to reduce their tax burden to increase the wages of low-wage workers will begin to be implemented.
the territorial divisions of the committee initiated 48 unscheduled inspections to determine compliance with the legislation by subjects of natural monopolies and the socially significant market.
Among the tasks of the ministry in 2018, the First Vice Minister called ensuring the macroeconomic stability of the country, improving inter-budget relations, strengthening tax policy, expanding public-private partnership tools and methods, and effectively managing the country's debts.
As a result of the processing of information in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, in January-December 2017 the number of births amounted to 390.5 thousand people, which is 4.7% less than in January-December 2016.
On October 25 of this year, the dialogue platform of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan hosted the regular meeting of the expert group on entrepreneurship under the chairmanship of the Director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Zhakupova.
the task for the state is to become one of the 30 competitive states by increasing the growth rate of the economy from 4.1% to 5-6%.
in addition, this year, all three international rating agencies standard & poor's, fitch ratings, moody's approved Kazakhstan's independent credit rating at the level of investment reliability with a forecast of stability.
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on the change in output indices for the main sectors: agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to more than 60%.
there is also a decrease in the positions on the indicators "taxation" (-6), "connection to the power supply system" (-6) and "registration of property" (-1).
The volume of cargo turnover in January-June 2018 amounted to 281.9 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 9.5% compared to January-June 2017.
Within 5 years, I mandate to increase labor productivity in the agro-industrial complex and export of processed agricultural products, respectively, by at least 2.5 times.
Between January and November 2005, more than 5 thousand buses of the daewoo, iveco, and hyundai model were produced.
also according to the indicator "export to yen%" according to the results of 2017, 9 year, an increase from 2016 to 31.7%% in 36.9% of the year will contribute to improving Kazakhstan's position in the new rating from the current 71st to 62nd place.
Thus, in accordance with the methodology, 13 statistical indicators for regions and cities of republican significance and 4 statistical indicators for districts and cities of regional significance (including administrative centers of regions) are provided.
Ministry of National Economy with the assistance of Eidu (previously Eidu made recommendations in the field of policy assessment and risk management in the framework of reviews on public administration) "Review of central government bodies of Kazakhstan" (2014) and "on the way to creating an effective, strategic and accountable state in Kazakhstan" (2017).
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on the change in output indices for the main sectors: agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to more than 60%.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 19.8%, oil and fat products and eggs - 15.9%, fruits and vegetables - 9.9%, milk, bread and cereals - 7.4%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%.
Since 2018, an independent local government budget has been introduced in 1062 cities of regional significance and rural districts with a population of more than 2 thousand people.
On September 25, 2018, within the framework of the 14th meeting of the Kazakh-Romanian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation, the First Vice-Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Ruslan Dalenov met with the head of the Romanian delegation - co-chair of the intergovernmental commission, Secretary General of the Ministry of Business Environment, Trade and Entrepreneurship.
From January 1, 2015, the period of registration of legal entities belonging to small and medium-sized enterprises subject to registration on the e-government web portal was reduced to 1 working day.
In February 2019, compared to the previous month, prices for resale of landscaped housing increased by 0.3%, unfinished - by 0.2%, and sales of new housing remained unchanged.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 18.8%, dairy, fat and oil products and eggs - 14.6%, fruits and vegetables - 12.7%, bread and cereals - 6.9%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%.
Deputy Chairman of the organizing committee, Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimen, representative of the partner gva Kazakhstan bulat of joiners, members of the organizing committee aef bauyrzhan of turlybekov and dinar of joldaspayev told about the preparations for the Astana economic forum global challenges summit 2018.
By September 1, 2019, for the early development of children in preschool education, it is necessary to introduce uniform standards of programs that develop independent learning skills and social skills.
3 . transition to semi-annual public reports on the performance of natural monopolies by entities before consumers of tariff estimates and investment program activities.
In January 2018, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of landscaped housing increased by 0.1%, undeveloped - decreased by 0.2%, sales of new housing remained unchanged.
as a result of joint work with sectoral state bodies and organizations, ukp. Atameken and Worn has compiled a list of products for lending to priority projects consisting of 36 product groups, 65 ecjk and 365 product items.
this work is carried out in all areas. this work is carried out in all directions .
the level of prices for legal services, vehicle insurance - 6% each, services of preschool institutions - 3.2%, health care - 2.6%, hairdressers and personal service places - 2.4%, catering services - 1%.
the right risk is oriented supervision or not, is it right to go in the direction of basel 3, which you can talk about for a long time.
tariffs for 3 TM were reduced, including the base entity in the city of Shymkent for Kaztransgaz Zone JSC.
He recalled that in 2016 a new code of ethics was adopted in Kazakhstan, regulating standards for the public speaking of civil servants at work, during official communication with colleagues, in their free time, in the media.
if the amount of the lump-sum lifting allowance for specialists is increased from 70 to 100 months, an additional 400 million tenge is required annually for the announced number of specialists.
Thus, 546 organizations were withdrawn from the state sphere, of which 190 organizations were sold as part of the privatization program, 162 organizations were classified as liquidation, and 194 organizations were liquidated as part of the property inventory of subordinate organizations of state bodies.
In July 2018, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of underprivileged housing increased by 0.6%, with the exception of landscaped housing - by 0.1%, and sales of new housing decreased by 0.1%.
export prices last month for oil - 3.9%, for black metal shelter - 2%, for chromium ores - 1.7%, zinc 0.8% for coal - 11.8%, copper ores - - 3.6%, lead - 3.2%, ferrous metal products - 2.9%, ferroalloys - 2.1%, aluminum - 2%, manganese ores - 1.9%, porland cement - 1.6%.
1) "business costs from organized crime" in 4 positions (from 62 to 58 places);
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 19.8%, dairy, fat and oil products and eggs - 15.7%, fruits and vegetables - 10.1%, bread and cereals - 7.4%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%.
Kazakhstan pays great attention to issues of regional cooperation.
summing up, s. Zhumangarin noted that in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the ministry will conduct a complete inventory of subordinate organizations of state bodies, the results of which will be announced in August 2018.
As of May 1, 2018 the country's population was 18,232,0 thousand people, including urban - 10,492,2 thousand (57.5%), rural - 7,739,8 thousand people (42.5%).
benefits will be provided within a period of no more than 3 years from the moment of completion of modernization and reconstruction and, if investments amount to at least 5 million months, "the minister said.
average daily time 53.6% Kazakhstanis on research stocks or 12 hour 50 minutes of personal care (9 hours 13 minutes - for sleep, 2 hours 4 minutes - for food and drinks, 1 hours 27 minutes - for personal hygiene and self-care, etc.) , 2 hour 59 minutes (12.4%) - to work (employment), 2 hour 57 minutes (12.3%) - per household, 52 minutes (3.5%) - for study, 18 minutes (1.2%) - for the production of goods for their own use, and the remaining 4 hours 4 minutes (17.0%) - for free time.
Head of the Department of the Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights in the Turkestan Region (hereinafter - the Department) e. Ibraikhanov reported in detail to the audience on the work done by the department in accordance with the instructions of the head of state given at a meeting of the Security Council on November 7, 2018.
On October 8, 2018, Astana hosted the 2nd meeting of the Kazakh-Serbian intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation, chaired by Deputy Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Serbia Asset Ergaliev and State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Serbia Dragan Stevanovich.
So, according to the results of the 2016 letter, "the share of children and graduates of primary school-youth who have reached the minimum level of literacy and accounting skills" is 98%.
In connection with complaints from consumers, the department carried out an unscheduled inspection of 5 TMS services (gkp "heat" mkk, mkp "Turkestan water," LLP "Southern Light Transit," mkp "kentau-service" and mkp "hot water").
butter (reduced from 5-55% to 4-40%),
in the North Kazakhstan region among the regions it was established that men have the largest free time - 5 hours 44 minutes, men of the Zhambyl region - 3 hours 58 minutes.
190 countries were ranked according to dozens of subindexes: starting a business, obtaining building permits, connecting to power grids, access to a loan, registering property and others.
increase in book prices - 4.5%, pharmaceutical products - 3.7%, cars - 3.3%, building materials - 3.2%, household appliances, clothing and shoes - 3.1%, personal goods, textiles - 2.8%, furniture and household items - 2.7%, glass and brick products - 2.6%, cleaning and cleaning products - 2.4%.
On June 15 of this year, on behalf of the committee for the development of languages ​ ​ and the socio-political work of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the committee), a state employee of the National Scientific and Practical Center "Language - Kazan" named after Shaistan Shayakhmetov held a republican competition among youth "Master of Language - 2018."
at these meetings 37 systemic issues of regulation of entrepreneurial activity initiated by the business community itself represented by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Atameken" and marking of control (identification) marks were considered.
Following the meeting of the Security Council chaired by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev on November 7 of this year, devoted to tariff formation in the housing and communal services sector, the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan timur Suleimenov held a working meeting under the leadership of the Ministry and the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights.
Foreign trade turnover in January-August 2018 amounted to 59848.4 million US dollars and increased by 21.6% compared to January-August 2017, including exports - 3,9081.1 million US dollars (28.2% more), imports - 2,0767.3 million US dollars (10.8% more).
The forum is devoted to the discussion of trade and investment opportunities of Central Asian countries.
In 2017, according to the results of the inventory of subordinate organizations of state bodies, as well as the results of individual government orders, the comprehensive privatization plan was supplemented by 168 organizations, "Zhumangarin said during a press conference.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs for gas transported through distribution networks increased by 11.4%, hot water - by 10.9%, centralized heating - by 9.9%, sewerage - by 9.1%, housing content - by 7%, cold water - by 5.1%, electricity - by 5%.
From January 15 to 17, 2019, the 1st stage of negotiations on the approval of a free trade agreement between member states and the Egyptian Arab Republic on the one hand took place in Cairo (Egyptian Arab Republic), in which representatives of the ministries of national economy, justice, health, industry and infrastructure development took part.
In 2018, the Ministry of National Economy also plans to analyze paid business services that entail non-tax burdens and develop proposals to reduce them.
Kazakhstan has also developed the next amendments to the legislation, which positively affect 8 indicators of the World Bank's doing business rating as part of improving the business climate.
The SPIEF was attended by more than 10 thousand states and governments from Russia and foreign countries, heads of large companies, leading world experts representing science, the media and civil society.
At the same time, in terms of growth in industry, the leading region appeared from the regions by growing by 11%, East Kazakhstan region by 9.6% and Kostanay region by 8.7%, "said Timur Suleimenov.
for personal vehicle insurance services - 6%, for kindergarten services - 4.6%, amusement park services - 4%, sanatorium services - 3.7%, health services - 3.5%, cellular services - 3.1%, for hairdressing services and personal service places - 2.7%, for cable television services - 2.3%.
According to the minister for the government hour, currently 902 objects are included in the comprehensive privatization plan for 2016-2020, the growth will be 122 companies or 15.6%.
blood producers in Kazakhstan, including Raimbek, since 2010 have enjoyed temporary preferential preferences in the transportation of sugar and raw materials for its production without customs duties within the eurozone.
This meeting was submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan at a government meeting on November 13 this year. with the ministries of investment and development, information and communications, the region, water, gas supply with the akimats of Astana, Almaty and Shymkent, joint work on water disposal, telephone communication, reduction of tariffs for Internet services and peak.
5 . transition to the semi-annual implementation of annual public reports on the implementation by monopolists of tariff estimates to consumers and investment programs.
During the meeting, measures were discussed to further implement the economic policy of the Ministry of National Economy and the direction of activity within the framework of the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 10, 2018 "New development opportunities in the conditions of the fourth industrial revolution."
Also, by the end of the year, tariffs for 15 monopolists in the field of heat supply, water supply, electricity supply and gas transportation are expected to decrease by 2.7 billion tenge.
Since 2018, an independent local government budget has been introduced in 1062 cities of regional significance and rural districts with a population of more than 2 thousand people.
in this regard, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the united nations development program, as well as with the participation of representatives of the branches of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 2 this year in the Auliekol district of the Kostanay region and this year
heads of industrial enterprises in the III quarter of 2018 compared to the II quarter of last 2018 recorded an increase in demand for finished products and a decrease in production volumes.
Note that products are currently being collected in 2018, which will also contribute to an increase in the volume of raw materials for sugar production.
From June 8, regional awareness-raising events were held among entrepreneurs, in particular, in Pavlodar, Kokshetau, Almaty, Aktobe, including nearby regions. during the period since june 8 , we conducted cluster information and explanatory activities among entrepreneurs , in particular , the cities of pavlodar , kokshetau , almaty , aktobe with the involvement of nearby regions .
Within the framework of the mission, on 25 January, the experts held a seminar at which they examined the positions of the IDU on budget planning, international best practices in the management of budget processes, as well as methods for evaluating budget programmes.
On April 13 this year, the Ministry of National Economy, taking into account the amendments and additions dated February 3, 2018 No. 38, held a seminar on explaining the main provisions of the rules for the development and approval (renegotiation) of budget programs (subprogrammes) and the requirements for their content, approved by Order of the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 30, 2014 No. 195.
In the first quarter of 2018, prices for building solutions increased by 2.1%, sand - by 1.6%, flat hook - by 1.2%, pipes - by 0.8%, paints and enamel - by 0.7%, brick - by 0.5%.
rising prices for books - 6.1%, cars - 6%, building materials 5.9%, stationery - 5.5%, pharmaceutical products - 5.3%, clothing and shoes - 5.2%, for household appliances - 5.1%, for glass and brick products - 5%, textiles - 4.3%, student rant, backpack - 4% on furniture and household goods, personal goods - 3.8%, cleaning and cleaning products - 3.7%.
Foreign trade turnover in January-March 2018 amounted to 21026.4 million US dollars and increased by 24.3% compared to January-March 2017, including exports - 13779.2 million US dollars (27% more), imports - 7247.2 million US dollars (19.4% more).
Foreign trade turnover in January-July 2018 amounted to 51944.4 million US dollars and increased by 20.1% compared to January-July 2017, including exports - 34005.6 million US dollars (26% more), imports - 17938.8 million US dollars (10.3% more).
the decrease occurred in four factors: "skills" -5, "health" -3, "business intensity" -2, "macroeconomic stability" -1.
According to the results of the World Bank's doing business rating, published on October 31, 2018, over the past 11 years, Kazakhstan has taken 28th place out of 190 countries, increasing its rating by 36 points.
The Minister said that the measures taken by the government in this direction are a doubling of the share of SMEs by 2030 (up to 36% compared to 17.5% at the end of 2011) and bringing this share to 50% by 2050.
the level of prices for legal services, vehicle insurance increased from 6%, services of preschool institutions - by 1.4%, passenger transport - by 1.3%, health care - by 1.2%, hairdressers and personal services - by 0.8%, catering - by 0.3%.
The 82nd meeting of the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent Countries was held on June 21 this year in the Belarusian capital, the agenda of which covered a wide range of specific issues of further cooperation and multilateral cooperation in the economy.
In January 2019, compared to the previous month, sales prices of new housing increased by 0.6%, unfinished - by 0.5%, landscaped housing - by 0.3%.
for abuse of dominant position, the object of investigation is fined 5 percent of the income derived from monopolistic activities
rising prices for cars - 8%, building materials - by 7.2%, for pharmaceutical products, clothing and shoes, household appliances - 6.8%, textiles - 6.4%, personal goods - 5.9%, stationery - 5.8%, cleaning and cleaning products - 5.7%, furniture and household items - 4.9%.
So, from 10.9% of hot water in 2017 to 2.2% in 2018, electricity - from 5.0% to 1.1%, gas - from 11.4% to 2.7%, heat - from 9.9% to 2.6%.
* The source of data for 2018 is the periodicity of 2-t (salary) "structure and report on the distribution of wages."
rising prices for books - 4.8%, building materials 4.2%, for cars - 4.1%, for pharmaceutical products - 4%, for clothing and shoes - 3.7%, for household appliances - by 3.6%, for textiles, glass and brick products - 3.5%, furniture and items necessary for the house - 3.2%, for personal goods - 3%, for cleaning and cleaning products - 2.6%.
the working group will continue to work in this direction and will form an action plan for 2019, taking into account the tasks set by the Strategic Plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025.
In order to provide rural settlements with quality drinking water, the Government needs to provide at least 100 billion tenge annually from all sources.
the increase in prices for textiles was 1%, pharmaceutical products, personal goods, furniture and household items - 0.8%, cars - 0.7%, detergents and cleaning products - 0.6%, clothes and shoes, household appliances - 0.5%.
On August 20 and 22 of this year, the representative of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan on ethics a. Urazgulov held meetings of committees on statistics and regulation of natural monopolies, protection of competition and consumer rights with the participation of employees of territorial divisions of Karaganda region and Astana city.
reflection prices increased by 9%, bitumen - by 8.6%, Portland cement - by 6.1%, timber - by 4.7%, ferrous metals - by 3.5%, sand - by 3.3%, paints and enamels - by 3.2%, pipes - by 2.5%, sheet glass - by 2.2%.
the cost of living per capita in March 2018 compared to the previous month increased by 0.7%, in March 2017 - by 16.7%.
then, as of November 1 of this year, the country's international reserves decreased by 2.7% (compared to the same period in 2017) to 85.6 billion US dollars (by 7.6% to 29.1 billion US dollars) due to a reduction in foreign exchange reserves.
for example, "Internet" (Internet), "handshake" (crocodile), "treat" (piano) and the like.
In 2015, article 33 of the Civil Code was amended to abolish the requirement of the need for a press for legal entities belonging to a private enterprise.
Trade turnover between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Romania in 2017 amounted to 992.3 million dollars, while exports amounted to 925.6 million dollars, imports 66.8 million dollars.
In 2017, the energy value of food consumed by the population on average per capita was 3,192 kcal, which is 217 kcal more than a year earlier.
As of July 1, 2018, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 427,325 units and increased by 7.2% compared to the same period last year, including 4,18539 units with less than 100 employees.
the parties noted significant progress in agreeing on the text of the agreement and, following the results of the negotiations, identified the tasks of the next round, planned in March 2019.
As of September 1, 2018, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 431,704 units and increased by 6.6% compared to the same period last year, including 422,933 units with less than 100 employees.
As of October 1, 2018, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 433,967 units and increased by 7.1% compared to the same period last year, including 424,975 units with less than 100 employees.
On July 3 this year in the city of Nur-Sultan, the topic of the Eidu seminar was held with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan - "improvement of territorial indicators for improving regional policy."
(at constant prices)
The target for 2018 is 45th place, "B. Turlybekov said at a meeting of central government agencies and the Atameken NPP on outreach within the def-jbi on Friday.
On December 4-5, 2018, OECD experts on enterprise development, SMEs and local development launched the project "Review of policies governing the management of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as entrepreneurship issues."
In May 2018, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of new housing increased by 0.3%, for the resale of landscaped housing - by 0.2%, for underprivileged housing - by 0.1%.
margarine - by 2.7%, pasta - by 2.4%, sausages - by 2%, dairy products - by 1.6%, confectionery - by 1.5%, vegetables - by 0.6%, cocoa - by 2.5%, coffee - by 1.4%, fish - by 1.2%, tea - by 1%.
under the agreement, Iran reduces and approves import customs duties on Kazakhstan's main goods of export interest (102 lines in 6 values, including 47 a/x, 55 industrial), including:
There is still a tendency to purchase goods from non-residents of the state (imports from eo countries in 2017 amounted to 126.9% compared to the previous year).
from congenital abnormalities of 328 or 20.2%, from respiratory diseases - 124 or 7.6%, from infectious and parasitic diseases - 86 children or 5.3%, and from accidents, poisoning and injuries - 73 or 4.5%.
In 2017, the availability of general education schools with computers for pedagogical purposes amounted to 98.5%, 85.8% of the total number of schools was connected to the Internet.
also, for example, if the best time for connecting to the electricity network is 18 days, then in the Republic of Korea this figure is 13 days, and in total 10 days.
the increase in prices for pharmaceutical products was 1.9%, textiles - 1.4%, personal goods, cars - 1.3%, furniture and household items, cleaning and cleaning products, clothes and shoes - 1.1%, household appliances - 1%.
In his speech a. Dzhakupov noted that the law on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity, signed by the head of state in May 2018, was a special event for Kazakhstan's business.
On November 14, 2018, territorial divisions of the Committee for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan held public receptions for citizens in five cities of regional significance.
On September 28, 2018, the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov held summit meetings with the Minister of Foreign Trade of the Republic of Uzbekistan Zhamshid Khojayev and Deputy Minister of Economy of the United Arab Emirates Abdullah Ahmed Salih at a forum on promoting investment and trade at the highest level.
The head of the national economy noted that according to the project "with a diploma in the village," more than 4 thousand specialists were given budget loans for the purchase of housing for 13.7 billion tenge.
On October 12, 2018, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan together with the national partner - the center of strategic initiatives (csi) in Kazakhstan held a seminar-meeting on explaining the new methodology 4.0 of the World Economic Forum for representatives of state bodies, development institutions and atameken.
rising prices for cars, building materials - 6.3%, clothing and shoes - 6.1%, pharmaceutical products - 6%, household appliances - 5.9%, textiles - 5.8%, stationery - 5.7%, personal goods - 5.2%, cleaning and cleaning products - 4.4%, furniture and household items - 4.1%.
producer prices for rice - 13.5%, vegetable oil - 8%, tea - 6.2%, sugar - 5.5%, fish - 3.8%, wheat flour - 3.5%, rye flour - 2.4%, livestock meat - 2.1%, dairy products 1.9%, poultry meat increase by 0.9%, bread by 0.7%, cereals - by 3.3%, pasta - by 1.5%.
a decrease in prices for buckwheat was recorded by 28%, garlic - by 25.6%, sugar - by 19.5%, tomatoes, eggs - by 16%, cucumbers - by 12.5%, sunflower oil - by 9.9%, cabbage - by 5.2%.
Trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Egypt in January-October 2018 amounted to 74.8 million US dollars, which is 39.9% (53.5 million US dollars) higher than the same period last year.
1 . submission of the application of monopolists for approval of the tariff through the "monopolist" base in electronic form with placement in it of all justification means and full access of consumers.
In September 2018, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of new housing and the sale of landscaped housing increased by 0.2%, unfinished housing - by 0.1%.
According to the CIS State Committee, the volume of industrial production in the Commonwealth countries in January-July 2018 compared to January-July 2017 increased by 3.3% (in January-July 2017 - by 3.4%).
The agreement on the creation of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States was signed on October 2009 on October 3 in the city of Nakhchivan (Azerbaijan Republic) on the initiative of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the leader of N.A. Nazarbayev.
In February 2018, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of new housing increased by 0.2%, and the sale of landscaped and landscaped housing remained unchanged.
Currently, experts expect that in the period until 2021 the new tax code will increase state revenues by optimizing the regime of benefits and preferences and reducing inequality.
The Hungarian minister also said that wizz air will operate one flight per week along the route of the capital and Budapest from January to March 2019 instead of two flights per week.
According to the CIS State Committee, the volume of industrial production in the Commonwealth countries in January-December 2018 compared to January-December 2017 increased by 3.4% (in January-December 2017 - 2.8%).
In order to continue the work on the comprehensive study of the business climate in each region of the country, the government of the country decided to expand this year the scope of the subnational rating in all 14 regions and cities of Almaty and the capital.
all information tools and their provision will be clearly regulated, and their number is planned to be reduced by 30% only at the first stage of the reform.
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan told about what work was carried out last year in the department and what main tasks will be completed for 2019 at the reporting meeting with the population of the capital Kazmedia Center.
these amendments are developed in accordance with the instructions set out in the message of the head of state of October 5, 2018 and provide for:
On November 19, 2018, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chaired by the Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin, held a conference call with the akimats of the regions, cities of Astana, Almaty and Shymkent on reducing tariffs for housing and communal services as part of the execution of the instructions of the head of state, announced on November 7 this year at the Security Council.
From February 27 to March 1, 2018, the third round of negotiations on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and its member states, on the one hand, the Republic of Singapore, took place in Singapore (Republic of Singapore).
Kazakhstan became one of 30 countries to simplify business as a result of the systematic work of the government to reform the current legislation, improve the permitting system, simplify business opening procedures, optimize state control and supervisory activities, improve the business climate in the country and Kazakhstan's position in international ratings.
The championship in sambo among masters of sports took place on October 19-22 this year in Morocco in the city of casablanca at the invitation of RKB "Kazakhstan federation of sports and combat sambo."
From year to year, there is a gradual decrease in the share of the population without skills in the assembly industry, only over the past 3 years their share has decreased from 22% in 2015 to 16.3% in 2017.
Ruslan Dalenov noted that in 2018, the price index as a whole remained at 5.3%, food products rose by 5.1%, non-food products - by 6.4%.
Ruslan Dalenov noted that in 2018, the price index as a whole remained at 5.3%, food products rose by 5.1%, non-food products - by 6.4%.
October 12, 2018, capital, Kazakhstan: Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov during a working trip to Washington discussed a number of issues with American colleagues, such as cooperation, the implementation of previously reached agreements and the state sanctions policy.
For comparison, in 2015, the share of the quasi-state industry in the yen in terms of gross value added amounted to 19.1%, at the end of 2016 - 18.6%.
the management of the committee was instructed to submit concrete proposals on the responsibility of officials of the central apparatus and territorial divisions of the committee by November 12 of this year.
The forum participants discussed issues of economic cooperation in the field of transport, trade, the environment, water and energy resources, statistics, as well as the achievement of the goals for the sustainable development of the participating countries until the period 2030.
opening the meeting, the head of state noted that priority areas of development have been identified today, which "will ensure the sustainable advancement of the economy above the global average growth rate and among the 30 leading countries in the world."
The highest rate of population of retirement age among the regions of the country at the beginning of 2018 in the North Kazakhstan region amounted to 17.95%.
8 . placing on its Internet resource of subjects information on the progress of investment programs (location of objects, stages of execution with the application of photo, video materials).
The main topic of the spring meetings of the World Bank in 2018 is the discussion of reforms to improve the business climate in Kazakhstan and the project "increasing the competitiveness of shock in Kazakhstan."
Next, attention will be paid to local roads and up to 5 thousand kilometers of roads are repaired annually.
in the field of housing and communal services, tariffs for centralized heating decreased by 11%, cold water - by 7.5%, sewerage - by 6.9%, hot water - by 6.6%, electricity - by 4.7%, gas transported through distribution networks - by 4.1%, garbage collection - by 3.4%.
4 . placing information on the investment program progress on the subject's Internet resource (location of objects, stage of execution with photo application, video materials).
During the reporting meeting of Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenova with the population, the head of the department reported on the results of the work done for five months and the main tasks set before the end of 2019.
Kazakhstan and Hungary, among other things, exchanged information on existing export-oriented opportunities in our country and agreed to organize a trade mission of Kazakh manufacturers in Hungary for 2019.
rising prices for zinc - by 23.7%, copper - by 19.7%, aluminum - by 12.7%, ferroalloys - by 9.8%, lead - by 9.5%, draining of ferrous metals - by 2%.
Compared to doing business 2018, Kazakhstan increased the distance from the previous limit by 0.01 points, while other parameters (number of procedures, time, registration cost) did not change.
tobacco - by 22.9%, fish - by 2.4%, vegetables - by 2.3%, dairy products - by 1.7%, coffee - by 5%, sugar - by 4.6%, cocoa - by 3.8%, poultry meat - by 1.7%, margarine - by 1.5%.
in prices)
He also noted that by 2025, the country's urbanization rate will be reduced by 62% and the gap between regions per capita by 2.8 times.
cabbage rose by 1.8%, table beets - by 0.5%, potatoes fell in price by 8.3%, bulb onions - by 5.4%, table carrots - by 5%, open ground tomatoes - by 4.9%, open ground cucumbers - by 2.4%.
On October 9 of this year, within the framework of the joint project "Support for the implementation of the functional review," a seminar was held on the topic: "Policy assessment and risk management in government bodies."
In 2017, 2694.6 billion tenge was allocated for the purchase and overhaul of machines, equipment, vehicles, tools, which is 16.3% higher than in 2016.
among the employed, the number of self-employed workers, that is, those employed without employment, amounted to 2.1 million adams or 24%.
The Ministry of the Interior is the main performer of the results for 3 indicators, for which improvement should be noted:
the first part consists of 15 reforms aimed at implementing 6 indicators: "connecting to the power supply system," (me), "" opening enterprises "(mu)," protecting minority investors "(nb)," obtaining a building permit "(miir)," obtaining a loan "(nb) and" taxation "(mf).
From April 2 to April 10, 2018, the Statistics Committee of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Committee) conducted a one-time modular study "use of the time budget by the population," the periodicity of which is carried out once every 5 years.
the largest savings are observed in the electricity sector, which exceeds 14.5 billion tenge, from 3% to 22%.
- improvement of Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating.
The structure of business accounting consists of 12 factors: "institutions," "infrastructure," information and communication technologies. " (act), macroeconomic stability, "" health, "" knowledge and skills, "" commodity market, "" labor market, "" financial system, "" market criterion, "" business intensity "" and innovative potential.
In monetary terms in 2017, the indicator amounted to 69.5 billion US dollars (a similar indicator in 2016 amounted to 55.5 billion US dollars).
Within this forum the institute of economic researches at the ministry of national economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with institute of world economy and policy at fund of the first president - the leader held on January 30, 2018 in "nazarbayev the center" a conference on a subject: "A role of the intellectual centers in Kazakhstan" (further - a conference).
In addition, from January 1, 2019, the reduction of tariffs for the population in the remaining 16 regions is predicted in Pavlodar region from 3% (from 33.94 to 32.92 tenge/m3) to 22.7% (from 54.6 to 42.2 tenge/m3).
To finance new initiatives of the head of state (messages to the people of Kazakhstan and instructions at the XVIII Congress of the Nұr Otan Party) in 2019, the following changes are proposed:
5) the introduction of a fine "turnover" for failure to provide information or for the inadmissibility of the total income of a large business entity in the amount of one percent in the premises of the verification form.
international rating agencies standard & poors, moody's and fitch gave Kazakhstan a stable rating, "the vice minister said.
Since the creation of the customs union in 2010, a single customs tariff of 340 tenge per ton of imported white sugar from third countries has been applied to all EAEU member countries.
first.
October 18, 2018, capital, Kazakhstan: Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov at a briefing in the press center of the Government of Kazakhstan spoke about what tasks set in the message of the President of Kazakhstan will contribute to improving the competitiveness of Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the 2017 rating, the best district that created favorable conditions for doing business was recognized as the fireplace district of the West Kazakhstan region.
the main factor supporting Kazakhstan's rating is the strong balance sheet of the state, as well as liquid assets that exceed external debt in experts' forecasts until 2022.
In the capital, on July 25-26, 2018, a seminar-meeting was held at the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the effectiveness of state bodies and the introduction of a factor and point scale for the remuneration of public servants.
Today, at the site of the Central Communications Service, the Minister of National Economy summed up the results of the reporting meeting with the population and reported on the economic results of the state body for 2018.
In order to improve the legal culture and provide legal information, by order of the responsible secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 10, 2018 No. 355, a plan of measures for legal mass training in the ministry was approved.
housing provision over the past 10 years has increased by 30% per resident and today amounts to 21.6 square meters. meters.
Definition: global challenges summit 2018 xi Astana Economic Forum will be held from May 17 to 19 this year.
while the projected decrease in gas prices for the population in the southern regions is: in Almaty - 12% (from 29.8 to 26.3 tenge/m3), in Shymkent and Turkestan region - 6% (from 30.7 to 28.9 tenge/m3), in Zhambyl region - 6% (from 24.3 to 22.8 tenge/m3).
A 10-year strategic development plan is drawn up every five years to define and analyse it in the medium term.
thanks to the measures taken over the past 5 years, the disclosure of criminal attacks related to extortion has improved (from 77.3% in 2013 to 97.3% in 2017).
On June 3-5, 2019, the Kazakh delegation will be headed by the First Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.n. At the World Bank headquarters in Washington, D.C., under the leadership of Zhumabekov, the country presented reforms to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship development.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 18.6%, dairy, fat and oil products and eggs - 14.3%, fruits and vegetables - 13.3%, bread and cereals - 6.8%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs, at the initiative of the Ministry of Energy, has developed a draft amendment to article 38 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Road Traffic."
On June 16, 2017, by a decision of the board of governors of the Aiibas, a decision was made to appoint from June 16, 2017 to June 27, 2018 the deputy chairman of the board of governors of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1 . I believe that the privatization carried out by the government should be aimed not only at strategic investors, but also at retail investors.
With the adoption of the bill, 25 areas of control and 3 supervisory areas out of 18 will be excluded from 114 areas of control.
in the field of electricity, tariffs for 4 Tm were reduced, including the basic entity - Southern Light Transit LLP.
In March 2018, compared to December last year, prices in construction increased by 4.9%, construction and installation work - by 5%, machinery and equipment - by 4%, other works and expenses - by 5.8%.
According to Zhumabekov, the study was carried out in the regional centers of 14 regions of Kazakhstan, as well as in the cities of nur-sultan and Almaty, taking into account the level of their urbanization, population, economic activity, political and geographical diversity.
In March 2019, on the back of invoices-receipts in February 2019, a notification is made for consumers about the reduced tariff for utilities in the city of Almaty.
So, from January 1, 2016, the Entrepreneurial Code was introduced, which today is the main legislative document regulating business activities.
In July 2019, at the high-level political forum on sustainable development in the city of New York, Kazakhstan is to present the first national voluntary review on the theme No. 4, 8, 10, 13, 16 and 17 "Empowering people and ensuring integration and equality."
the foreign trade turnover of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the eurozone countries in total accounts for the Russian Federation - 91.9%, the Kyrgyz Republic - 4.5%, the Republic of Belarus - 3.5%, the Republic of Armenia - 0.1%.
the foreign trade turnover of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the eurozone countries in total accounts for the Russian Federation - 92.0%, the Kyrgyz Republic - 4.3%, the Republic of Belarus - 3.6%, the Republic of Armenia - 0.1%.
from congenital abnormalities - 239 or 21.8%, from respiratory diseases - 89 or 8.1%, from infectious and parasitic diseases - 55 children or 5%, and from accidents, poisoning and injuries - 50 or 4.6%.
for example, according to doing business 2017 for the country, an indicator of 75 points is 25 points, the distance between the country's achievements and the previous limit, calculated on the basis of the best indicators throughout the country and for all years.
- By Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 26, 2018 No. 806 "On Measures for the Further Improvement of the Public Administration System of the Republic of Kazakhstan" the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Ministry) transferred functions and powers in the field of the formation of state policy on attracting investments.
at the same time, it should be borne in mind that total inflation is an indicator of the average increase in prices for 510 goods and services in the country. at the same time , it is necessary to take into account that general inflation is the average price growth indicator for 510 goods and services in the country .
The head of state at a meeting of the Security Council on November 7 of this year also noted the lack of feedback from the population regarding the transparency of the formation of tariffs for services by natural monopolies.
in general, 14.5 thousand civil servants took part in the race, including 456 people in the city of Astana, depending on five age characteristics: 25-31, 32-39.40-49, 50-59, 60-69.
international trade
On May 28-29, 2019, the 5th meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Trade Potential and Standards of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe was held in Geneva (Switzerland).
Today, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov, during the traditional report of the department to the population, reported on the work done last year and the ministry's plans for 2018.
uniform telephone hotline (1402), the website of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the minister's block, public council at the ministry and advisory advisory bodies at territorial departments of police.
Over 25 years of work, the Paudb together with the government, public organizations, business, other UN agencies and other development partners in Kazakhstan implemented 150 projects worth more than $150 million.
men employed on a working day spend an average of 9 hours 1 minute on work, women - 7 hours 53 minutes, free time - 2 hours 35 minutes and 1 hour 44 minutes, respectively.
Republic of Kazakhstan
increase in producer prices for rice - by 20.8%, rye flour - by 8%, wheat flour - by 6.7%, tea - by 7.9%, poultry meat - by 7.1%, livestock meat - by 2.5%, sugar - by 5.6%, dairy products - by 2.7%, bread - by 1.1%.
As of December 20, 2018, electricity prices for the population were reduced by 3.6% (from 13.35 to 12.86 tenge/kvz) and in the Kyzylorda region by 4% (from 14.51 to 13.93 tenge/kvz).
Aibol Argyngazinov, Director of the Center for Analysis and World Economy of the Institute of Economic Research: I am sure that the Kazakh economy has completed 2018 in stable development and will make this breakthrough in the future
in addition, an inventory of state support tools and property of development institutions will be carried out, an additional 500 billion tenge will be allocated to support the manufacturing industry and non-resource exports, "the minister said.
Today, May 17, 2018, an interim agreement was signed on the site of the Astana Economic Forum, which will lead to the creation of a free trade zone between the Eurasian Economic Union and its member states and Iran.
4 . Quarterly placement by monopolists in the media of information on the progress of the investment program with the application of photo and video materials.
by purchasing bonds of banks with authorized capital of not less than 60 billion tenge on terms of urgency, payment and return.
In accordance with Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 18, 2002 No. 323 "On the Appointment of Representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Boards of Governors and the Determination of a Channel of Communication with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank," Timur Suleimen was appointed Ayib Manager on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the official visit of the President of Tajikistan Y. Rahmon on March 14, 2018, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan signed a memorandum of understanding and cooperation in the field of antimonopoly policy.
the average decrease in the country is about 8%, including in the field of heat supply - 10%, water supply and sanitation - 6-7%, gas supply - 7%, electricity supply - about 8%.
On October 11, 2018 in Almaty, the Ministry of National Economy together with the Institute of Economic Research JSC held a round table on the topic: "Practice of applying the entrepreneurial code of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
101,29 )
101,32 )
101,62 )
101,911 )
101,92 )
102,010 )
102,12 )
102,510 )
102,97 )
103,12 )
103,210 )
103,411 )
103,69 )
103,711 )
103,72 )
103,73 )
103,89 )
103,911 )
104,07 )
104,12 )
104,22 )
104,42 )
104,52 )
104,67 )
104,92 )
105,12 )
105,88 )
106,22 )
107,02 )
107,22 )
107,53 )
107,83 )
108,32 )
108,42 )
108,98 )
109,62 )
111,78 )
Astana.
From January 2013 to June 2016, he served as director, deputy chairman of the board, chairman of the board of the White Enterprise Development Center "Institute for Economic Research."
According to the data of the III quarter of 2018, the share of productively employed out of the total number of self-employed amounted to 89.7%, unsuccessfully employed - 10.3%.
passenger travel by air rose by 18.7%, by rail - by 9%, by intercity bus - by 7.5%, by inner city bus - by 4.9%.
Of the 12 competitiveness factors, there were improvements in 5 factors, a decrease in 4 factors, positions in 3 factors were not reduced.
the highest salary among highly qualified specialists in the construction industry was received from managers in construction (381 thousand tenge), from qualified specialists - engineers (357 thousand tenge).
these techniques are valid for 3 days as part of control measures to protect the rights of business entities that have realized the contribution.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of February 2018 amounted to 120.3 thousand people or 1.3% of the workforce.
According to the results of the 2017 rating, the Kyzylorda region was recognized as the best region that created favorable conditions for doing business.
It is worth noting that since 2016 Kazakhstan has a single window principle for all investors and offices of regional services for investors have been opened in all 16 regions of the country.
Agricultural products sold by agricultural structures in 2018 rose by 7.8%, crop production - by 9.1%, livestock production - by 5.3%.
The index of physical volume of gross domestic product (iin) for 2017 (according to the reported data) compared to the corresponding period last year amounted to 104.1%.
all information tools and their delivery will be clearly regulated, and their number is planned to be reduced by 30 percent only in the first stage of reform.
Of the total number of self-employed workers, the share of productively employed amounted to 89.6% (in 2016 - 86.4%), unproductively employed - 10.4% (in 2016 - 13.6%).
There are also 5 factors assessed by the sociological survey method: regulatory situation, infrastructure, availability of state support for business, human capital, transparency of decisions.
According to the CIS State Committee, the volume of industrial production in the Commonwealth countries in January-May 2018 compared to January-May 2017 increased by 3.4% (in January-May 2017 - 3.9%).
Of the total number of self-employed workers, the share of productively employed amounted to 90.7% (in 2017 - 89.6%), unproductively employed - 9.3% (in 2017 - 10.4%).
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of June 2018 amounted to 149.5 thousand people or 1.7% of the workforce.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 4.6%, in manufacturing - by 4%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 2.4%.
This meeting was held as part of the execution of the instructions of the head of state given at the meeting of the Security Council on November 7 of this year, as well as following the results of the inspection of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of tariffs for utilities.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of August 2018 amounted to 151.9 thousand people or 1.7% of the workforce.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of September 2018 amounted to 146.8 thousand people or 1.6% of the workforce.
the rating consists of 114 consolidated indicators by 12 factors (economy, infrastructure, health and education, technological training, labor, finance, the market for goods and others).
6 . Participation of the WSC in the consideration of applications of monopolists for the approval of tariffs, as well as a report on the implementation of tariff estimates and investment programs.
From November 12, 2018, public reception rooms began to operate in the territorial divisions of the Committee for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Protection of Competition and Consumer Rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Committee).
10 complaints were received and appropriate measures were taken concerning violations of ethics by State officials.
over the past 5 years, the number of employees who have undergone retraining and vocational training has increased 1.9 * times.
According to the CIS State Committee, the volume of industrial production in the Commonwealth countries in January-August 2018 compared to January-August 2017 increased by 3.3% (in January-August 2017 - by 3.5%).
in the field of housing and communal services, electricity tariffs were increased, centralized heating - 3.5% each, garbage collection - 3%, housing content - 2.3%, gas transported through distribution networks - 1.9%, cold water - 1.8%, sewerage - 1.6%.
Since January 2017, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 37.6%, non-food products - 30.2%, paid services - 32.2%.
In January 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 1.2% compared to the corresponding month of last year.
64 or 20.2% of congenital abnormalities, 29 or 9.1% of respiratory diseases and 11 or 3.5% of accidents, poisoning and injuries.
This year it is planned to reconstruct 4.2 thousand kilometers of roads of republican importance and repair 2 thousand kilometers of roads.
731 or 23.2% of congenital abnormalities, 195 or 6.2% of respiratory diseases and 168 or 5.3% of accidents, poisoning and injuries.
In his speech, Vice Minister S. Zhumangarin noted that on May 24, 2018, the head of state signed this law aimed at improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
682 or 23.5% of congenital abnormalities, 177 or 6.1% of respiratory diseases and 156 or 5.4% of accidents, poisoning and injuries.
Since January 2018, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 37.8%, non-food products - 30.1%, paid services - 32.1%.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-June 2018 amounted to 4529.9 billion tenge, which is 25.8% more than in January-June 2017.
In January-August 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 7.4% compared to the corresponding period last year.
The baseline parameters for 2019 as part of the forecast, taking into account external and internal factors, are maintained at a previously approved level:
According to the results of trading held in 2017, 10 objects have not yet been sold, the procedure for their privatization will be completed in 2018.
Since January 2019, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 38.8%, non-food products - 29.8%, paid services - 31.4%.
Taking into account the consequences of the global economic crisis that began in 2008 and the development of the fourth industrial revolution (4ir) in 2018, the gay methodology was significantly changed.
as a result, their number will be reduced by 30%, which will significantly reduce the cost of business associated with the provision of various reports, references and other information.
In January-March 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 0.3% compared to the corresponding period last year.
the level of prices for health services increased by 7.9%, legal - by 7%, in the field of recreation, entertainment and culture - by 6.9%, vehicle insurance - by 6.8%, hotels - by 6%, catering - by 5.8%.
Since January 2018, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 37.8%, non-food products - 30.1%, paid services - 32.1%.
In January-May 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 5.6% compared to the corresponding period last year.
In January-June 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 6.5% compared to the corresponding period last year.
The head of the national economy noted that according to the project "with a diploma in the village," more than 4 thousand specialists were given budget loans for the purchase of housing for 13.7 billion tenge.
our country has grown over the past 20 years and is leading in a number of gender equality indicators. over the past 20 years , our country has grown and is leading in a number of indicators to ensure gender equality .
Mutual trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the eurozone countries in January-June 2018 year amounted to US $ 8,868,1 million and increased by 2017 compared to January-June 6.3% year, including exports - US $ 2,839,7 million (growth by 11.3%), imports - US $ 6,028,4 million (growth by 4.1%).
This year, the first place in the ranking was taken by the United States of America, which is one of the top three in the last 5 years.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov congratulated the women of the department on the upcoming March 8 international women's day on behalf of the male public of the ministry and on behalf of themselves.
Since January 2018, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 37.8%, non-food products - 30.1%, paid services - 32.1%.
Mutual trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the eurozone countries in January-August of 2018 year amounted to US $ 12,254,7 million and in comparison with January-August of 2017 year increased by 8.4%, including exports - US $ 3,909,2 million (growth by 13.8%), imports - US $ 8,345,5 million (growth by 6.0%).
Mutual trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the eurozone countries in January-September 2018 year amounted to US $ 13,982,5 million and in comparison with January-September 2017 year increased by 8.7%, including exports - US $ 4,349,2 million (growth by 12.4%), imports - US $ 9,633,3 million (growth by 7.2%).
On November 12, 2018, public reception committees began to function to regulate natural monopolies, protect competition and consumer rights of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the committee).
passenger travel by air rose by 12.4%, by rail - by 7%, by intercity bus - by 6%, by inner city bus - by 3.1%.
October 18, 2018, capital, Kazakhstan: Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov at a briefing in the press center of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan announced the results of the rating of the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum (wef) for 2018-2019.
In January-September 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 8.3% compared to the corresponding period last year.
9 . The akimats hold public hearings when approving utility consumption standards for consumers who do not have metering devices.
On June 19, at the site of the Central Communications Service, the Minister of National Economy summed up the results of the reporting meeting with the population and answered questions from representatives of the garden on the activities of state bodies.
According to Kazakh statistics, the foreign trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Spain in 2017 increased by 26.3% and amounted to 1 billion 698.6 million dollars (2016 - 1 billion 344.5 million dollars).
The Head of Kazakhstan recalled that the economic development of Kazakhstan in 2017 passed the period of adaptation to new life activities and changed the global average growth rate, amounting to 4%.
To support and develop entrepreneurship in the country, on behalf of N. Nazarbayev, an additional 30 billion tenge will be allocated annually for the further implementation of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" in 2019-2021.
In January-December 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 10.4% compared to the corresponding period last year.
our long-term goal is to make the private sector a priority and increase the share of SMEs in the country to 50% by 2050.
The Chairman of the cash register informed the deceived guests in detail about the exchange's development plan for the next 3 years, new services and business opportunities in the Kazakhstan stock market.
consumer prices in the Commonwealth countries in July 2018 compared to December 2017 increased by 2.7% (in July 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 3.9%), prices of manufacturers of industrial goods increased by 9.2% (in July 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 1.9%).
On February 20, 2019, at the initiative of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan and with the support of the Nұr Otan party, public receptions for entrepreneurs started in Almaty.
Today, about 43% of active small and medium-sized businesses in the country are headed by women, "said the vice minister.
According to Kazakh statistics, the foreign trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Serbia in 2017 increased by 59.1% and amounted to 42.0 million US dollars.
In conclusion, the head of the department noted that as a result of the work carried out, tariffs for the end consumer will be reduced from 3% to 15.31%, depending on the type of services provided.
in addition, the sub-factors of "technological infrastructure" remain weak - 49th place (a decrease of 6 points) and "health and environment" - 56th place (a decrease of 3 points).
consumer prices in the Commonwealth countries in December 2018 compared to December 2017 increased by 6.2% (in December 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 6.3%), prices of manufacturers of industrial goods increased by 11.4% (in December 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 10.1%).
an increase in prices for ferroalloys - by 18.9%, ingots of ferrous metals - by 12.9%, aluminum - by 7.7%, precious metals - by 1.3%, their decrease on zinc - by 8.2%, lead - by 5%, copper - by 2.4%.
In 2017, as part of the development of international economic cooperation, 50 notifications were considered and sent, participation in the development of 25 international rules in accordance with domestic Kazakh norms was approved.
Speaking at the solemn meeting, the Minister noted that March 8 is one of the bright and unusual holidays in our country.
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 66.8 thousand people, which is 0.1% more than in January-June 2017.
tariffs in the field of water supply and sanitation of 39 tons were reduced, including the basic subject of the Turkestan su MP.
The volume of gross products (services) of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in January-February 2018 amounted to 233.5 billion tenge, which is 3.3% more than in January-February 2017.
from August to 50 percent, we are ready to subsidize if the coupon rate does not exceed five percent of the base rate.
The volume of retail trade in January-June 2018 amounted to 4404.1 billion tenge or 105.6% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 119.8 thousand people, which is 1.3% less than in January-November 2016.
The index of physical volume of gross domestic product (yin) in January-December 2017 compared to the corresponding period last year amounted to 104.0%.
Today, January 29, Almaty hosted a meeting of representatives of state bodies with the business community, at which measures to improve the business climate in the country were discussed.
On January 1, 2016, a list of products (goods) that are subject to extended obligations of manufacturers (importers), approved by Order No. 695 of the Acting Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 4, 2015, was put into effect.
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 11.8 thousand people, which is 8.4% less than in January 2017.
The index of physical volume of gross domestic product (yin) in January-March 2018 compared to the corresponding period last year amounted to 104.1%.
women in Kazakhstan spend on home care (cooking, laundry, washing dishes, cleaning and an average of 4 hours 48 minutes a day.
lower prices for tariffs and regulated services of monopolists in other regions occurred from January 1, 2019.
at the same time, the current tariffs for potatoes, tomato paste and vegetables supplied from Iran are set at gsp (in the amount of 7.5-9%).
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 130.0 thousand people, which is 1.8% less than in January-December 2016.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January 2019 amounted to 644.6 billion tenge, which is 2.5% less than in January 2018.
In 1988 he graduated from the graduate school of the Moscow Civil Engineering Institute named after V.V. Kuibyshev and received a Ph.D. in economics.
In September 2017, according to the turnover of the competition of economic activities, the heads of organizations in Astana and Almaty formed the highest wages - 926 thousand tenge and 888 thousand tenge, respectively.
On February 12, at a press conference in the Central Communications Service, the vice ministers of the national economy summed up the results of the country's socio-economic development in 2017, and also outlined the ministry's plan for the current year.
On June 6 this year, the Ministry of National Economy chaired by the Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov held a meeting of the Coordination and Public Council, which discussed the implementation of the project "village - cradle of the country"
The difference in life expectancy between men and women in 1992 was 9.8 years, in 2017 - 8.2 years.
The volume of retail trade in January 2019 amounted to 694.6 billion tenge or 104.4% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2018 (in comparable prices).
last year, wheat prices increased by 16.1%, rye - by 8.1%, oats - by 7.3%, corn - by 6.9%, rice - by 6.7%, barley - by 6%, and buckwheat - decreased by 14.1%.
The agreement on the creation of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States (estate or Turkic council) was signed on October 3, 2009 in Nakhchivan (Azerbaijani Republic) at the IX Summit of Heads of Turkic-speaking States.
The volume of retail trade in January-August 2018 amounted to 6261.3 billion tenge and increased by 6.5% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
This was announced by Deputy Minister of Trade of China Qian at a meeting in Nur Sultan on July 4 this year.
Also, residents of business incubators will be provided with government grants in the amount of 80% of the project amount, but not more than 50 million tenge (distribution is provided in 2019).
summing up the briefing, the deputy head of the department clearly demonstrated bills for utilities in March 2019.
On December 10, 2018, under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin, a round table was held on the topic: "Transparency of tariff policy and measures taken to reduce tariffs."
He began his career in 2006 as an inspector of the department for issuing stamps of the Karaganda region.
On July 27 of this year, by a government decree on the basis of a proposal by the Ministry of Agriculture, as part of the implementation of national obligations of the eurozone, these preferential preferences were canceled.
The volume of wholesale trade in January-August 2018 amounted to 13238.3 billion tenge and increased by 5.4% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
thus, within the framework of the expert group meetings, about 70% of measures and recommendations were developed to solve systemic issues.
On December 13, 2018, under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister of National Economy of Aibatyr Zhumagulov, a regular meeting of the working group on interregional and intersectoral cooperation of the Council of National Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of December 2018 amounted to 91.6 thousand people or 1% of the workforce.
At the end of the year, gross domestic product grew by 4 percent, and industrial production grew by more than 7 percent.
Thus, as of January 1, 2018, the comprehensive privatization plan includes 904 organizations, that is, 122 companies or 15.6%.
12 staff from the Ministry of National Economy participated, including 2 human resources officers and 10 staff from the Statistics Committee.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-September 2018 amounted to 7517.1 billion tenge, which is 21.6% more than in January-September 2017.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 283,378, of which 274,875 were small enterprises (less than 100 people).
On June 12-13, 2018, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a seminar on the draft calculation of the "index of restriction of trade in services for the Republic of Kazakhstan" with the participation of representatives of organizations of economic cooperation and development, state bodies and organizations.
From December 1, 2018, consumers of the North Kazakhstan region recorded a decrease in the tariff for heat supply services from 114.7 tenge to 113.4 tenge/m2 (-1.1%).
an independent basket, especially due to regional aspects, cannot cover all 510 types of goods, "the minister said during the meeting.
Out of 114 indicators for 28 indicators, the improvement occurred for 76 indicators, for 10 indicators of changes were not recorded, "said Suleimenov.
In 2017, the number of employees amounted to 6.5 million people or 75.5% of the total employed population.
from November 2017 to March 2019 - Head of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Director of the Tax Control Department of the Ministry - Acting Deputy Chairman of the State Revenue Committee.
it provides quality drinking water for two to 20 thousand people suitable for use in natural disasters.
5 . Holding of public hearings when the akimats approve the norms of consumption of public services for consumers without metering devices.
By 2025, it is planned to cover 80% of the total rural population with the necessary benefits and services in accordance with regional standards.
According to the results of the implementation of tariff estimates for 2017, the department introduced a temporary compensation tariff in 3 districts
In addition, a conference is planned to be held in Astana on June 29, which will summarize the results of the explanatory work, taking into account all these issues.
Thanks to the implemented programs, the volume of housing introduced in Kazakhstan exceeded 10 million square meters per year.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov made a report on the topic "Global economy and national priorities" at the cfo summit 2018 event held on Friday in Almaty.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-February 2018 amounted to 1187.4 billion tenge, which is 54.4% more than in January-February 2017.
On November 2018, 27 in Astana, within the framework of the VIII Civil Forum, a sectional meeting was held on the direction of sustainable development "prosperity."
At the end of 2017, the volume of mutual trade between Kazakhstan and Switzerland increased by 26.9% and amounted to 3.1 billion US dollars.
Thus, the total volume of Kazakhstan's exports grew by 31.6% and amounted to 43.1 billion US dollars (32.7 billion US dollars in 2016).
During the meeting, the Minister will talk about the work done and plans of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2018, as well as answer questions of concern to many.
According to analysts, due to the growth of manufacturing production in the non-oil and oil economies, balanced growth has been observed since 2017.
11 global topics will be presented for discussion: the world of a single economy, the world of global strategy, the world of resources, the world of new clean energy, the world of longevity, the world of future money, the world of global security, the world of a new humanity, the world of cities, the world of singularity and the digital world.
a decrease in prices for garlic was recorded - by 37.2%, sweet pepper - by 36.1%, potatoes - by 28%, bulb onions - by 24.1%, buckwheat - by 21.2%, carrots - by 14.8%.
In January-December 2017, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 26% compared to the corresponding period last year.
Thanks to donor support from the Government of Kazakhstan, 154 projects with two local consultants, 23 projects with international experts and 62 projects with enterprises managed by women were implemented in 2017.
On October 17, 2018, the World Economic Forum (wef) published the annual report on the global competitiveness index (gi) of 2018.
The Committee was established in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on Expanded Partnership and Cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union, ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan in March 2016, with the aim of expanding trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU.
According to statistics, the foreign trade turnover between the two countries in 2017 increased by 38.2% and amounted to 156.5 million US dollars.
Exports from Kazakhstan to China in January-May 2019 grew by 45.5% and amounted to $3.3 billion.
Since 2016, according to the updated program, Russian is taught in Kazakh schools from grade 1.
Also in the 4th quarter of 2018, it is planned to bring to will the kazatomprom and air capital, "said Suleimenov.
The population of the country as of January 1, 2018 amounted to 18 157.1 thousand people, including urban - 10 426.5 thousand (57.4%), rural - 7 730.6 thousand people (42.6%).
In January-February 2019, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 17% compared to the corresponding period last year.
The volume of wholesale trade in January-June 2018 amounted to 9342.1 billion tenge or 106.1% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
last year, the price index in construction amounted to 105%, construction and installation work - 105.4%, machinery and equipment - 102.5%, other works and expenses - 105.6%.
By 2022, $118 billion of foreign direct investment will be attracted to Kazakhstan, of which $24.6 billion will be foreign direct investment focused on efficiency.
In January-February 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
On November 19, 2018, a government decree was adopted "On some issues of ensuring long-term liquidity to solve the problems of providing affordable loans."
the jeep is calculated by 98 indicators, of which 54 are based on data from international organizations, and 44 are based on the GIC survey.
In January-November 2018, the number of home purchase and sale transactions increased by 10% compared to the corresponding period last year.
For 2 years of implementation of the comprehensive plan 476 objects were put up for sale, of which 367 objects were sold in the amount of 164.7 billion tenge. over the 2 years of the implementation of the comprehensive plan for sale , 476 facilities were put up , of which 367 objects were sold for a total of 164.7 billion tenge .
diesel fuel rose by 28.8%, coal - by 7.1%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 6%, and gasoline fell in price by 2.8%.
prices for melons increased by 6.3%, grapes - by 5.8%, sunflower seeds - by 2.2%, and for fruits and berries decreased by 9%.
in Kazakhstan, the ksp program has been implemented since 2010 as part of the strategy of the Republic of Korea. as part of the grant technical cooperation between the Ministry and the Kadi Institute.
in general, taking into account the reorganized and liquidated facilities, the implementation of the comprehensive privatization plan is 70%, "said Suleimenov.
The economist's high salary was noted in Mangistau region and Mangistau region, respectively, 389 thousand tenge and 313 thousand tenge, and the lower - in Zhambyl and North Kazakhstan regions 105-113 thousand tenge.
The volume of wholesale trade in January-September 2018 amounted to 15339.1 billion tenge or 106.4% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
Of the 98 indicators, improvements occurred in 50 indicators, worsened in 34 indicators and there are no changes in 14 indicators.
I also instruct in 2018 to increase the gap between categories and introduce a new category table that takes into account the level of qualifications for teachers.
The volume of gross agricultural products (services) in January-December 2017 amounted to 4097.5 billion tenge and increased by 2.9% compared to January-December 2016.
The volume of gross products (services) of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in January-June 2018 amounted to 1012.1 billion tenge and increased by 4% compared to January-June 2017.
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 44.8 thousand people, which is 1.1% more than in January-April 2017.
for this it is necessary to increase the total amount of budget allocated annually in the medium term to 150 billion tenge.
In 2017, the number of visitors from China for tourist purposes increased 8 times compared to 2000 and amounted to 6.8 thousand visits.
The volume of gross products (services) of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in January-August 2018 amounted to 1775 billion tenge and increased by 2.4% compared to January-August 2017.
According to experts, spending restrictions and significant government revenues will affect the budget balance in 2018 and beyond.
an independent basket cannot cover all 510 types of goods, especially due to regional aspects, "the minister said.
The improvement in 12 factors of competitiveness was made in five factors, the decrease in four factors.
More than 40 thousand passengers have used the services of the Hungarian airline wizz air since the opening of direct flights to the capital - Budapest.
awarded the Order of Honor, medals "For Valiant Labor," "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan," "II degree," "25 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
The volume of industrial production in January-August 2018 in current prices amounted to 17804.3 billion tenge, which is 4.7% more than in January-August 2017.
39 orders were introduced to stop violations of the legislation on natural monopolies, "the head of the national economy emphasized.
the control and supervisory burden on the business will decrease significantly, and the control function has decreased by 30% due to the removal of 20 industries from 114 areas of control.
The volume of industrial production in January-September 2018 in current prices amounted to 20239.8 billion tenge, which is 4.8% more than in January-September 2017.
the least paid services were in the South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Kyzylorda regions, where managers received from 251 thousand tenge to 282 thousand tenge.
first, a one-time lifting allowance of 70 monthly estimates or, briefly, aek is provided.
a decrease in prices for buckwheat cereal was recorded - by 12.6%, eggs - by 1.1%, rice, black tea - by 1%, poultry meat - by 0.8%.
in the field of heat supply, tariffs for 5 sem were reduced, including the basic subject of the "thermal" mkp.
The volume of industrial production in January 2019 in current prices amounted to 2157.5 billion tenge, which is 1.9% more than in January 2018.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-August 2018 amounted to 6389 billion tenge, which is 21.4% more than in January-August 2017.
already today 7 types of tax revenues and 5 types of non-tax revenues have been transferred to the budget of the rural district.
The volume of retail trade in January-February 2018 amounted to 1258.2 billion tenge or 4.1% more than in the same period of 2017.
improvement occurred in three sub-factors: "basic infrastructure" - 47th place (improvement by 8 points), "scientific infrastructure" - 47th place (improvement by 2 points), "education" - 29th place (improvement by 6 points).
Section 7, Chapter 31 and the Business Code, consisting of 324 articles, combined the "functional" laws of general regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
in the plot of the TV channel "24 news" about the solution of social issues by the program of public-private partnership in the villages of Kyzylorda region
According to the Deputy Minister of National Economy of Aybatyr Zhumagulov, in 2017 a study of 2 cities and 6 regions of Kazakhstan (Astana, Almaty, Aktobe, Karaganda, Kostanay, Rostock, Pavlodar, Shymkent) was carried out.
the number of active legal entities amounted to 279,720, of which 27,1208 were small enterprises (less than 100 people).
German-Kazakh cooperation on the implementation of the program of advanced training of senior employees covers the period until 2022.
benefits for disabled persons, families that have lost their breadwinner and are raising disabled children have increased to 16 per cent.
according to the sub-factor of business legislation, there is a decrease of 6 points (28th place), "tax policy" - a decrease of 4 points (14th place) and "institutional environment" - a decrease of 4 points (50th place).
From July 1, 2018, the basic pension will be increased by an average of 1.8 times depending on the length of service.
In January 2019, compared to January 2018, production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
The population of the country as of September 1, 2018 was 18,311,7 thousand people, including urban - 10,555,8 thousand (57.6%), rural - 7,755,9 thousand people (42.4%).
diesel fuel rose by 20%, coal - by 6.8%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 6%, and gasoline fell in price by 2.7%.
In 2013 - Deputy Director of the Housing Construction Department of the Agency for Construction and Housing and Communal Services of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In January-April 2018, compared with January-April 2017, production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
The population of the country as of December 1, 2017 amounted to 18 137.3 thousand people, including urban - 10 413.2 thousand (57.4%), rural - 7 724.1 thousand people (42.6%).
12 applications were received for participation in the competition and according to the results of examinations, 10 applications were sent to the commission for the selection of business incubators.
In order to improve innovation potential, a state program for industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be developed until 2025, the minister said.
loans are provided by banks at a rate of no more than 15%, of which 8% is paid by the entrepreneur, the difference is subsidized by the state.
also on behalf of the president and the proposals of the State Commission for the Modernization of the Economy, 46 organizations were excluded from the privatization plan.
On September 28, 2018, the international rating agency fitch approved a sovereign credit rating at the level of "bbb," in the forecast "stable."
In January-March 2018, compared with January-March 2017, the production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
in the section "other chemical products" eo sec tn 3820000000 - the code "antifreezes and icebreaking finished liquids."
There was an improvement in 4 factors out of 12 competitiveness factors, in 8 factors there was a decrease.
Since the launch of 115 enterprises headed by women in September 2015, consulting projects have been launched together with local consultants.
During the meeting, the head of state was announced the results of the analysis of economic development indicators for 2017, as well as a report on the activities of the ministry.
according to the new 4.0 methodology, the main emphasis is on statistical indicators (their share is 70%, and the share of questionnaire indicators is 30%).
On October 17 of this year, it is planned to issue an annual report on gbi defa, compiled over 39 years.
children from 10 to 14 years of age spend an average of about 4 hours 36 minutes per day on education.
In 2017, the country again embarked on a path of confident growth, overcoming the adverse consequences of the global crisis.
2) establishing rules for non-discriminatory access to limited resources (coal, fuel and lubricants processing, electricity generation);
The coordination of state and monetary policies will become the main reliable growth of the economy in 2018, "said Suleimenov.
in addition, there is a decrease in inflation by 5% -7% of the double-digit indicators of 2016.
As Timur Suleimenov noted, for the development of transport infrastructure, the implementation of the state program "Nұrly zhol" will continue until 2025.
According to the results of the 2018 rating, Kazakhstan took 59th place with an average score of 61.8, that is, it remained in the position of 2017.
The improvement is due to improvements in seats for three sub-factors: "international trade" - 56th place (6-point improvement), "employment" - 26th place (6-point improvement) and "prices" - 48th place (5-point improvement).
consumer prices in the Commonwealth countries in May 2018 compared to December 2017 increased by 2.5% (in May 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 3.2%), prices of manufacturers of industrial goods increased by 5.5% (in May 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 2.5%).
In 2017, new standard documentation was introduced for kindergarten, dormitory, clinic, medical and family outpatient clinic, street lighting, weaving.
At the opening of the Year of Youth on January 23 this year, the Head of State instructed to increase the amount of lifting allowance from 70 to 100 months.
In January-August 2018, compared with January-August 2017, the production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
in general, in order to implement the law, it is necessary to adopt additional acts in 146 laws, "said R. Dalenov.
Imports from Egypt to Kazakhstan in January-October 2018 increased by 40.3% and amounted to $58.9 million.
diesel fuel rose by 29.6%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 6%, and gasoline fell in price by 2.8%.
growth by 4%, "the Minister of National Economy told the Dalen, reporting on the socio-economic indicators of Kazakhstan in January-May of this year at today's government meeting.
In January-September 2018, compared with January-September 2017, production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
I instruct the government, together with the agency for public service affairs, in 2018 to implement pilot projects for the implementation of this system in central and local government bodies.
In January-October 2018, exports from Kazakhstan to Egypt increased by 38.2% and amounted to $15.9 million.
The presentation of the reports made at the meeting in Almaty on March 27, 2019 can be downloaded by the following links:
In January-July 2018, the largest share in the total retail trade in the republic falls on the city of Almaty (30.5%), the capital (12.3%), Karaganda and East Kazakhstan regions (8.8%).
In January-October 2018, compared with January-October 2017, the production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
In January-November 2018, compared with January-November 2017, the production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
In order to develop technological entrepreneurship, a program has been developed to support business incubation within the framework of the Unified Program "Business Roadmap 2020."
In January-October 2018, the largest share in the total retail trade in the republic falls on the city of Almaty (29.4%), the capital (11.9%), Karaganda and East Kazakhstan regions (9%).
consumer prices in the Commonwealth countries in August 2018 compared to December 2017 increased by 2.8% (in August 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 3.7%), prices of manufacturers of industrial goods increased by 9.6% (in August 2017 compared to December 2016 - by 3.4%).
In 2017, a pilot project of the subnational rating "doing business" was completed in 2 cities (the capital and Almaty) and 6 administrative centers of the region (aktobe, karaganda, kostanay, sprout, pavlodar, shymkent).
He began his career in 1990 as an inspector of the management branch of the savings bank of the Tselinograd region.
total savings of consumer funds for public utilities based on the results of tariff reduction will amount to 40 billion tenge.
The number of employees in 2018 amounted to 6.6 million people or 76% of the total employed population.
program partners - five financial institutions received $61 million in tenge for lending to women entrepreneurs.
The volume of retail trade in January-September 2018 amounted to 7164.2 billion tenge or 107% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2017 (in comparable prices).
Imports from China to Kazakhstan in January-May 2019 grew by 11.8% and amounted to $2.3 billion.
the decline in places was marked by the deterioration of the "domestic economy" sub-factors - 46th place (a decrease of 6 places) and "external investments" - 28th place (a decrease of 10 places).
A specialist who has entered into a project contract undertakes to work in rural areas for at least 3 years.
In January-December 2017, compared to 2016, production of crude oil, natural gas, metal ores and coal increased.
During the meeting, the agreements reached during the bilateral trade and economic cooperation and the visit of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United States in January 2018 were discussed.
The volume of gross products (services) of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in January-September 2018 amounted to 3188 billion tenge and increased by 2% compared to January-September 2017.
A similar tournament among sambo veterans in the world took place in 2012 in the city of Casablanca.
The international rating agency moody's on October 17, 2018 confirmed the sovereign credit rating at the level of "baa3," the forecast is "stable."
The main factors for refining the forecast of the main macroeconomic indicators for 2019 are the publication of the fact of 2018.
as a result, the salaries of teachers as a whole will increase from 30 to 50 percent due to confirmation of qualifications.
2) improving the transparency of the activities of state statistics bodies (processes for collecting, processing and disseminating official statistical information);
For more information and inquiries, please call 8 (7172) 74-30-38, link to the Internet resource of the Ministry of http:// economy.gov.kz/ru/content/отчетная-vstrecha, as well as e-mail press @ economy.gov.kz, mineconomy.rk @ gmail.com.
545 women tested the free online business lens diagnostic tool and identified the strengths and weaknesses of the business.
From 2019, the translation of the teaching of individual subjects of natural sciences in 10-11 classes into English will begin.
For 20 years, the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been operating, the Council for Improving the Investment Climate under the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, and the institutions of the investment and business ombudsman have been introduced.
Since the beginning of spring, trees and flowers have been planted in the southern capital on an area of ​ ​ 100 thousand square meters.
Until 2025, it is necessary to develop a clear timetable for the transition to the Latin alphabet at all levels of education.
food prices increased by 2.3%, non-food goods - by 3.6%, paid services for the population - by 3%.
Entrepreneurship reliability index (+ 1%), characterizing the business activity of surveyed trading enterprises in the III quarter of 2017.
In 2025, access to the central water supply system in cities will be increased to 97%, in villages - to 62%.	in 2025 , access to centralized water supply systems will be increased : in cities up to 97 % , in villages up to 62 % .	2,71
At the end of 2017, 70.3 thousand unemployed persons were officially registered with the employment authorities of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	officially , at the end of 2017 , 70.3 thousand unemployed were registered in the employment agencies of the ministry of labor and social protection of the republic of kazakhstan .	2,71
At the end of 2018, 91.6 thousand unemployed persons were officially registered with the employment authorities of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	at the end of 2018 , 91.6 thousand unemployed people were registered at the ministry of labor and social protection of the population of the republic of kazakhstan as unemployed .	2,71
In addition, as part of the clarification of the republican budget for 2019, additional changes will be made. Selection suggestions.	at the same time , as part of the refinement of the republican budget for 2019 , it is planned to make a proposal for an additional allocation of funds .	2,71
thus, it had increased to 164 members, and its rules and procedures covered more than 98 per cent of world trade.	thus , the wto has expanded to 164 members , and its rules and disciplines cover more than 98 percent of world trade .	2,71
diesel fuel - by 12.9%, liquefied gas in cylinders rose in price by 4.8%, and gasoline fell in price by 2%.	diesel fuel went up by 12.9 % , liquefied gas in cylinders - by 4.8 % , and gasoline - by 2 % .	2,71
The forum has been held for 10 years and has become an international platform connecting economic thoughts, ideas and experience.
leaders include Karaganda region (28 projects), East Kazakhstan region (26 projects), Aktobe region (25 projects) and Kostanay region (21 projects).
In 2018, it is necessary to begin developing the third five-year plan of industrialization to form the industry of the "digital age."
39 orders were introduced to stop violations of the legislation on natural monopolies, "the head of the national economy emphasized.
According to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 118 thousand people or 0.6% of the population were involved in the stock market in Kazakhstan.
in Kazakhstan, the largest density of legal entities per 1000 population is in the city of Almat.
the hidden unemployment rate in the III quarter of 2018 amounted to 0.3% of the labor force (23.8 thousand people).
On November 2018, 28 in Astana, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a sectoral meeting with representatives of the non-governmental industry in the framework of the VIII Civil Forum.
At the same time, up to 40 per cent of the population works in the securities market in developed countries.
Since January 2018, the share of food products in terms of tbi amounted to 37.8%, non-food products - 30.1%, paid services - 32.1%.
In November 2018, the average price for rice amounted to 317 tenge against 291 tenge per kilogram in November 2017 and 248 tenge against 322 tenge, respectively.
in particular, 70% of the indicators of the 2018 report are new, all competitiveness factors will have the same weight.
On June 2019, 6-8, the XXIII St. Petersburg International Economic Forum was held in St. Petersburg on the topic "Shaping the Agenda for Sustainable Development."
According to Kaztransgaz JSC, the return amount amounted to about 268 million tenge.
As a result of the two-year joint program, 24 projects were implemented, two of which were developed jointly with international experts.
A large oil and gas company has been successfully operating in the Kazakh market for more than 10 years, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
According to R. Dalenov, currently the ministry continues to work in such important 3 areas as prices and tariffs, the development of entrepreneurship and regions.
In 2017, 8.6 million people or 66.3% of the population aged 15 years and older were employed in various sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan.
in addition, according to the calculations of s & p experts, a small surplus is projected in the consolidated budget for the period up to 2021.
In 2018, 8.7 million people or 66.6% of the population aged 15 years and older were employed in various sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan.
In his report, the First Vice-Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov noted that the share of Kazakhstan in 2017 amounted to 4%.
Work on women and youth entrepreneurship has been carried out since 2013 on financing shell kazakhstan in West Kazakhstan region.
One of the most important tasks of the ministry last year, the minister called the development of a large-scale document - the Strategic Development Plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025.
In 1997 he graduated from Karaganda State University.
Kazakhstan exported more than 14 billion dollars of non-primary products (32.7% of total exports).
In January-December 2018, the average monthly salary increased by 7.2% in real terms, amounting to 161.4 thousand tenge.
reference: doing business (db) rating - an index of ease of doing business, published in the annual report of the World Bank since 2005.
In January-December 2018, compared to 2017, production of crude oil, natural gas and metal ores increased.
In January-March 2018, the largest share in the total retail trade in the republic falls on the city of Almaty (31.3%), the capital (11%), Karaganda (9.7%) and East Kazakhstan (8.5%) regions.
Due to the demand of industrial industries on the factor of competitiveness of companies, 1000 standards have been developed and adopted.
On April 5, 2018, the Institute of Economic Research held a meeting with deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, within the framework of which new social initiatives voiced by the head of state were discussed.
Since 2018, we have switched to a new procedure for providing targeted social assistance to low-income segments of the population.
On November 29-30, 2018, Almaty hosted the annual congress of retailers "exim big deals' 18 - a forum of big deals."
the number of active legal entities amounted to 269,719, of which 261410 were small enterprises (less than 100 people).
the number of active legal entities amounted to 271829, of which 263,546 were small enterprises (less than 100 people).
the number of active legal entities amounted to 274,813, of which 266,299 were small enterprises (less than 100 people).
In general, the transit of goods through Kazakhstan in 2017 increased by 17 percent and amounted to 17 million tons.
there is a difference in the salary of a doctor, Astana - 205 thousand tenge, South Kazakhstan region - 130 thousand tenge.
The number of unemployed in November 2018, according to estimates, amounted to 442 thousand people, the unemployment rate was 4.8%.
In addition, according to the results of 2018, there is an increase in the main indicators of socio-economic development.
This law was publicly signed by the head of state on May 24, 2018.
as part of this work, the law provides for 6 reform packages to improve business conditions for 8 rating indicators.
The number of countries estimated in the Gbi 2018 report was 140 countries, which cover 94% of the total world population and 98% of the world gin.
for such 3 factors as innovation potential (97th place), "act" (44th place) and "market size" (45th place), Kazakhstan's position has not changed.
In 2017, 8770.6 billion tenge was spent on the country's economy, which is 5.8% higher than in 2016.
5) the solution of reducing the burden on respondents by avoiding the collection of repetitive indicators.
In particular, since the beginning of 2019, a new institution of "preliminary control" has been introduced instead of random checks.
Based on the work carried out in 2019, it is planned to develop a new document on the spatial development of the country until 2030.
annual transit revenues in 2020 will be raised to $5 billion.
as a result, the savings of the population as a whole for water supply and sanitation services will amount to more than 2 billion tenge.
at the same time, growth is associated with an increase in exports from Kazakhstan to Switzerland and imports from Switzerland to Kazakhstan of more than 26%.
increase in cotton prices by 4%, their decrease in wool - by 1.8%, barley - by 1.6%, wheat - by 0.9%.
increased prices for barley - by 14.8%, cotton - by 6.5%, wheat - by 6.1%, their decrease for wool - by 6%.
The decrease was noted by 2 factors: "knowledge and skills" (57- place, -5 position) and "health" (97th place, -3 position).
Since the beginning of this year, the increase in prices for materials, parts and structures purchased by construction organizations has amounted to 1%.
diesel fuel rose by 2.5%, liquefied gas in cylinders - by 1.7%, gasoline - by 1%, coal - by 0.7%.
On November 13, 2018, the Office for the Development and Editing of the State Language of the Department of Internal Administration held a competition "Kazakh Ethnography."
the yearbook includes 340 indicators, of which 2/3 are calculated on the basis of statistics, 1/3 according to the survey.
advantages of Kazakhstan's competitiveness: labor market - 30th place (improved by 3 positions) and business intensity - 37th place (worsened by 2 positions).
the rating is evaluated by 190 countries of the world according to regulations governing the activities of small and medium-sized businesses.
Kazakhstan became the leader among the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, second in rating to Russia (31), Belarus (37), Armenia (41) and Kyrgyzstan (70).
The volume index for the communications industry in January-December 2018 amounted to 102.6%.
It should be noted that this indicator is currently calculated in 44 countries, where world services account for 80% of sales.
The volume index for the communications industry in January 2019 amounted to 101.2%.
at the same time, the share of the manufacturing sector in the total industry exceeded 40 percent.
Since July 3, 2018, the Commissioner for Ethics Urazgulov has been working in the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
over the past 4 years, 53 reforms have been implemented (an average of 13 reforms per year or more than one reform per month).
During the project, 60 thousand specialists received social assistance and were employed.
On March 20, 2018, the Institute of Economic Research of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a round table on the topic: "Five social initiatives of the president."
At the end of November 2018, 142.3 thousand people were officially registered with the employment authorities.
Wool growth in 2018 amounted to 4.1%, preserving the dynamics achieved in 2017.
More than a thousand people are engaged in small and medium-sized businesses, entrepreneurship is actively developing.
in addition, the audit exceeded the period established by the entrepreneurial code by 5 working days.
https : / / primeminister.kz / kz / news / all / kazahstanskaya-delegatsiya-prinyala-uchastie-v-rabote-48-go-ezhegodnogo-sobraniya-vsemirnogo-ekonomicheskogo-foruma
Over the past 10 years, foreign direct investment in our country has exceeded $200 billion.
the number of producers of gross products is 32 (28 small, 4 large), the most concentrated in the southern regions.
As of December 20, 2018, the tariff for the population in the Zhambyl region was reduced by 0.4% (from 16.4 to 16.3 tenge/3).
A strategic plan for the development of Kazakhstan until 2025 will be the benchmark for further sustainable growth.
In particular, the possibility of offering Kazakhtelecom shares by the end of the 1st half of 2018 is being considered.
In January 2019, prices for exported goods decreased by 1.4%, for imported goods increased by 1.6%.
In 2017, the production of solar power plants increased by 5.2% compared to 2016.
During the seminar-meeting, the Commissioner for Ethics spoke about the work done over the past period of 2018.
In May 2018, a law was adopted to improve the regulation of entrepreneurial activity, which became an exceptional event for business.
At the meeting, applications of state bodies for the implementation of grants in connection with 2019 of the Steam Development Program were considered.
Since January 1, 2018, a personal budget has been introduced in rural districts with a population of more than 2 thousand people.
in men (4 hours 6 minutes), the free time is almost 2 times that of women (45 hours 2 minutes).
During the years of independence, 8.7 million people were born in the country, of which 400.6 thousand children were born in 2016.
According to him, the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation in 2016 had a significant impact on the country's rating.
Over the years of independence, the population increased by 2 million people and amounted to 12.2% (November 1, 2018).
From 2011 to 2013 - Head of Control Department No. 4 of the Audit Commission for the city of Astana.
our ambitious goal is to increase the share of shoba in the economy to 35% in 2025 and 50% in 2050, "said the head of the ministry.
its value has increased from 40 to 50 percent of the subsistence minimum.
Since July 1, 2017, the procedure for considering taxpayers' complaints about the results of tax control has been changed.
m.takiev, "medal" 20 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "" 25 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "" 20 years of the capital. "
The volume index for the transport industry in January-December 2018 amounted to 104.6%.
to date, this index is calculated in 44 countries that provide more than 80% of world services.
the birth ratio was 107 male children per 100 girls.
The volume index for the communications industry in January-February 2018 amounted to 105.7%.
A targeted transfer of KZT370 billion from the national fund to establish a direct investment fund is also envisaged.
Competitions were held according to age categories 35-39, 40-44, 45-49, 50-54, 55-59, 60-65 and over 65 years old, among men 62, 68, 74, 82, 90, 100 and more than 100 kg.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-February 2018 amounted to 104.4%.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 1%.
a decrease in prices for cucumbers was recorded - 41.1%, tomatoes - 24.2%, buckwheat - 19%, garlic - 18.4%, eggs - 10.6%, poultry meat - 1.9%, black tea - 1.5%.
The reporting meeting of the Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov with the population, scheduled for June 12, 2019, will be postponed for technical reasons.
Minister of National Economy Timur Suleimenov reported on the results of the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan in January-October 2018 at a government meeting.
In 2017, the increase in prices for materials, parts and structures purchased by construction organizations amounted to 3.6%.
Speaking generally about the privatization issues of 2017, the minister noted that the year is "characterized by good results."
The study was carried out in accordance with the State classifier of services approved by Resolution of the State Standard of the Republic of Kazakhstan of October 16, 1999 No. 22.
Kazakhstan "international trade" (+ 21), "obtaining a loan" (+ 17), "obtaining a building permit" (+ 17), "opening an enterprise" (+ 5), "enforcing contracts" (+ 2) and "insolvency resolution" (+ 2).
According to preliminary data for 2017, state participation in the economy will decrease to 18.1% of GDP.
February 27, 2017 on improving civil, banking legislation and improving the conditions for entrepreneurial activity;
From 2009 to 2011 he worked in the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for public service affairs.
63% expect changes compared to the current time, 17% - improvements and 11% - deterioration of the financial and economic activity of the enterprise.
the share of e-commerce in retail this year increased from 1.9% to 2.9% or 92 billion tenge.
On March 27, 2019, a meeting was held with entrepreneurs on raising the position of this and Kazakhstan's doing business rating.
* Based on 2017 Sample Employment Survey data.
In November 2018, average prices for potatoes from vegetables amounted to 84 tenge per kilogram (in November 2017 - 119 tenge), white cabbage - 86 tenge (76 tenge), bulb onions - 72 tenge (93 tenge), carrots - 97 tenge (117 tenge).
Ecdb and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan jointly support the development of SMEs, whose share has reached 27% and plays an important role in the country's economy.
according to preliminary calculations, participants sent more than 11 million tenge to the fund's account.
Prices of manufacturing enterprises for industrial products in June 2018 increased by 8.1% compared to December 2017.
here we must fully implement 5 of your social initiatives, "said the head of Kazakhstan.
in the ranking, Kazakhstan was ahead of countries such as Spain (30th place), France (32), Poland (33), Portugal (34), Switzerland (38), Japan (39), Turkey (43).
Prices of manufacturing enterprises for industrial products in August 2018 increased by 11.9% compared to December 2017.
In January 2018, prices for exported goods increased by 0.2%, imported - by 0.9%.
On October 2018, 17-18, the VIII Central Asian Trade Forum was held in Tashkent in Uzbekistan with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Prices of manufacturing enterprises for industrial products in September 2018 increased by 14.4% compared to December 2017.
Kazakhstan was ahead of the country's eidu: Spain (30th place), France (32), Poland (33), Portugal (34), Switzerland (38), Japan (39), Turkey (43).
According to the ministry, over the past 3 years 247.1 billion tenge was allocated under the joint venture.
During the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in 2017, a male Baidibexpo appeared.
raw milk rose by 3.6%, sheep wool - by 1.1%, and chicken egg fell in price by 4%.
On December 6-7, 2018, experts from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development presented the project "Eidu Review on the Development Policy of Kazakhstan."
According to the ministry, 247.1 billion tenge has been allocated under the joint venture over the past 3 years.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-June 2018 amounted to 104.9%.
If in 1990 the share of these substances was 32%, 36%, 57%, respectively, then in 2017 the share of emissions was: 33%, 20%, 21%.
The volume index for the "trade" industry in January 2019 amounted to 107.5%.
http : / / economy.gov.kz / ru / kategorii / podderzhka-biznesa
http : / / economy.gov.kz / ru / pages / infografika-8
The volume index for the transport industry in January-August 2018 amounted to 104.8%.
on the reduction of passes and the simplification of authorization procedures as at 29 March 2016;
the short-term economic indicator in January-June 2018 by January-June 2017 amounted to 105.2%.
11 before the start of an unscheduled audit, including for the following industries:
The volume index for the communications industry in January-June 2018 amounted to 105.9%.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-September 2018 amounted to 104.6%.
in total, it is planned to approve the list of 75 such services and the procedure for their provision.
simultaneously "financial system" (100), "health" (97) and "innovation potential" (87).
The volume index for the communications industry in January-August 2018 amounted to 104.5%.
The volume index for the communications industry in January-September 2018 amounted to 103.9%.
Kazakhstan has been participating in the ranking of the global competitiveness index def since 2006.
the short-term economic indicator in January-August 2018 by January-August 2017 amounted to 104.5%.
The decision to start negotiations was made by the heads of the EAEU member states on May 31, 2016.
the short-term economic indicator in January-September 2018 by January-September 2017 amounted to 104.8%.
On March 8, 2019, the international rating agency s & p confirmed the sovereign credit rating at "-bb "/a-3, with a stable outlook.
3) conducting inspections of the quasi-public sector for the implementation of agreed activities;
Kazakhstan leads the ranking from Spain (30th place), France (32), Poland (33), Portugal (34), Switzerland (38), Japan (39), Turkey (43).
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in August 2018 was estimated at 159125 tenge.
This year, based on the available stationary data for 2017, we expect an improvement in the rating.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee according to estimates in September 2018 amounted to 160,555 tenge.
On March 9, 2018, the international rating agency standard & poor's confirmed an independent credit rating at the level of "bb-/a-3" with a forecast of "stable."
Compared to January 1, 2017, the population increased by 231.2 thousand people or 1.3%.
at the expense of the national bank's own funds and the funds under its management.
Since 1991, real gin growth has doubled from 229%.
As a result, over the 12 months of 2017, half of tax and customs inspections decreased.
tobacco products rose by 4.4%, chilled drinks - by 2.2%, alcoholic beverages - by 2%.
Compared to October 1, 2017, the population increased by 237.4 thousand people or 1.3%.
3) improving the quality of data collected and ensuring the quality of official statistical information;
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of March 4, 2019.
Public discussion is held on the Open Nka portal from October 12 to October 16, 2018.
savings in water supply and sanitation in total exceed 2 billion tenge.
our ambitious goal is to increase the share of shoba in the economy to 35% in 2025, 50% in 2050. our ambitious goal in this direction is to increase the share of smes in the economy to 35 % in 2025 and to 50 % by 2050 .
The information was prepared on the basis of data from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan as of January 3, 2019.
Kazakhstan in 2017 traded 182 countries and territories, which is 36 countries more than in 1995.
spending of the republican budget on the social sphere in 2018 increased by 12 percent and exceeded 4.1 trillion tenge.
The strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025 provides for the task of developing interregional competition and cooperation.
in the mining industry - by 21%, in the manufacturing industry - by 7.2%.
since wool growth in 2015 amounted to 1.2%, in 2016 - 1.1%, "said Dalenov.
the share of registered unemployed was 0.8% of the labor force (in 2016 - 0.4%).
in Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine according to the 2008 trilogy.
the share of registered unemployed was 1.0% of the labor force (in 2017 - 0.8%).
By Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 12, 2019 No. 96, Abylkasymova was appointed First Vice Minister of National Economy.
The volume of retail trade in January-October 2018 amounted to 7996.1 billion tenge or 6.5% more than in the same period of 2017.
The volume of retail trade in January 2018 amounted to 625.7 billion tenge or 4.3% more than in the same period of 2017.
The volume of retail trade in January-July 2018 amounted to 5298.2 billion tenge or 5.6% more than in the same period of 2017.
retail trade in January-March 2018 amounted to 1989.9 billion tenge or by 2017 more than in the corresponding period of 4.8% of the year.
imprisonment for up to 20 years is provided for their commission.
In January 2018, the infant mortality rate was 9.53 per 1000 births.
The face value for 2019 is 64.3 trillion. tenge, which exceeds the previous estimate by 323.5 billion tenge.
the remaining salary will be subject to individual income tax at a rate of 10 per cent.
The volume index for the trade industry in January-June 2018 amounted to 105.9%.
in Kazakhstan over the past 10 years, the number of legal entities has increased by 54%.
Compared to January 2017, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year increased by 7.1%.
From December 2016 to July 2017, he worked as an adviser to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In January-February 2018, the infant mortality rate was 9.31 per 1000 births.
1 minimum wage is deducted from this amount - the minimum non-tax income, that is, 28,284 tenge.
In January-May 2018, the infant mortality rate was 8.44 per 1000 births.
In January-December 2017, the infant mortality rate was 8.07 per 1000 births.
Compared to January-February 2017, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year increased by 8.5%.
today, three business incubators will be selected, with each of which an agreement for 3 years will be concluded.
The volume index for the trade industry in January-August 2018 amounted to 105.8%.
the short-term economic indicator in January 2019 amounted to 102.9% by January 2018.
The volume index for the trade industry in January-September 2018 amounted to 106.7%.
In January-November 2017, the infant mortality rate was 8.05 per 1000 births.
In 2005, d.a. graduated from Kunaev University with a degree in law.
for 4 months of this year, growth accelerated by 7.8% against 6.7%.
According to the indicators of socio-economic development for 9 months of this year, the region has developed a positive dynamics.
Compared to January-December 2016, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year decreased by 10.6%.
By Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated March 12, 2019 No. 100, Takiev was appointed Vice Minister of National Economy.
in India, this figure is 1.5 percent, in China - 10 percent, in Russia - 8 percent.
Compared to January-June 2017, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year increased by 1.3%.
In 2018, it is planned to work to improve the supply of Kazakhstani goods to world markets.
This year, we implemented subsidies of up to 50 percent of coupons on bonds. this year we have implemented subsidies for up to 50 percent of the coupon on bonds .
the largest number of rural settlements in the Turkestan region - 835
As a result, more than 13 thousand SME projects received financial support.
Compared to February 1, 2017, the population increased by 240.6 thousand people or 1.3%.
Since May 2011, he served as deputy head of the state legal department of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
as a result, the savings of the population will amount to about 5 billion tenge for gas supply services.
as a result, the savings of the population will amount to about 6 billion tenge for heat supply services.
3) upon receipt of a lifting allowance and a budget loan for housing construction:
The law on the electronic labor exchange must be adopted before April 1, 2018.
December 29, 2014 on cardinal measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
We set the goal of increasing the share of alternative energy in Kazakhstan to 30 percent by 2030.
over the 10 months of this year, agricultural output increased by 2.5%.
According to preliminary data, the growth of wool in 2018 amounted to 4.1%.
according to the results of 5 months of this year, industrial production increased by 2%. industrial production for the first 5 months of this year increased by 2 % .
the above-mentioned negotiations are conducted within the framework of the sea and continue for 2 days.
We see a significant increase in foreign trade turnover by 25.1% compared to 2016. we observe a significant increase in foreign trade turnover in comparison with 2016 by 25.1 % .
The head of state familiarized with the results of the program of financing and development of small and medium-sized businesses for 2017.
a. Orazgulov graduated from the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan in 2010.
Compared to July 1, 2017, the population increased by 238.1 thousand people or 1.3%.
Compared to March 1, 2017, the population increased by 240.3 thousand people or 1.3%.
Compared to September 1, 2017, the population increased by 237.6 thousand people or 1.3%.
Compared to December 1, 2016, the population increased by 231.3 thousand people or 1.3%.
Alpysov ermek amantaevich by decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated March 18, 2019 No. 116 was appointed Vice Minister of National Economy.
this year, the ministry will develop a new forecast scheme for the spatial development of the country until 2030.
in Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine according to the 2008 trilogy.
Kazakhstan has been participating in the Global Competitiveness Index def rating since 2006.
Structure of the daily fund of the time of the population aged 10 years and older in 2018
The volume index for the trade industry in January-February 2018 amounted to 107%.
In total, 316,386 tons of sugar were produced in 2017 (in 2016 - 402,965 tons, in 2015 - 239,926 tons).
Kazakhstan is currently developing trade relations with 185 countries of the world and 90% of Kazakhstan's trade falls on WTO member countries.
Compared to February 1, 2018, the population increased by 237.9 thousand people or 1.3%.
The press conference was broadcast on the channel "Message 24" and the page of the Central Communications Service on Facebook.
For 8 months, growth amounted to 21.6% or 59.8 billion US dollars.
From 2007 to 2009 he worked in the structure of the Mayor's Office of Astana.
the consumer price index in June 2018 compared to December 2017 amounted to 102.6%.
Food prices in September 2018 increased by 5.7% compared to September 2017.
the consumer price index in August 2018 compared to December 2017 amounted to 102.9%.
From February 2018 to February 2019 he was Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the consumer price index in September 2018 compared to December 2017 amounted to 103.3%.
On July 3, within the framework of astana finance days, the ninth meeting of the Ministers of Economy of the Turkic Council countries was held.
passenger turnover amounted to 135 billion dkm and increased by 5.5%.
passenger turnover amounted to 185 billion dkm and increased by 4.7%.
passenger turnover amounted to 209 billion dkm and increased by 4.2%.
This was reported by the correspondent of Izvestia 24.
the most famous consulting projects: marketing - 31; act - 19%; strategy - 13%; quality management - 11%.
Over 10 years, the event was attended by more than 150 thousand delegates from 50 countries.
In total, 74 public receptions were held in the country, in which 2,334 people took part.
Speka was created in 1998 at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
Madina Zhunusbekova was appointed Vice Minister of National Economy by Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated April 26, 2018 No. 218.
the total mortality rate was 7.21 deaths per 1000 people.
the total mortality rate was 7.26 deaths per 1000 people.
the total mortality rate was 7.59 deaths per 1000 people.
prices for dried peas decreased by 4%, sunflower seeds - by 3.7%.
dan zhunusova by decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated April 26, 2018 No. 219 was appointed Vice Minister of the National Economy.
20 thousand people a year undergo training on improving business knowledge on an ongoing basis.
Real wool growth in 2019 is estimated at 3.8%.
7 inspections revealed violations of the law totaling 9.8 million tenge.
the total mortality rate was 7.37 deaths per 1000 people.
rating consists of 114 indicators associated with 12 factors (34 statistical, 80 questionnaire).
During this time, the damage caused to them in the amount of 17 billion tenge was compensated.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 2%.
the total natural growth rate was 13.80 people per 1000 people.
the total natural growth rate was 13.83 persons per 1000 persons.
the total natural growth rate was 14.44 people per 1000 people.
the total natural growth rate was 14.52 people per 1000 people.
entrepreneurship reliability index (+ 7%), characterizing the change in business activity.
this made it possible to conclude 193.4 contracts worth 172 billion tenge using the company.
4 . asset management of private companies NPFs.
rent for landscaped housing increased by 6%.
running distance - 2 km for men and 1 km for women.
The problem is that the salary is 60,125 (25 monthly calculation indicators) tenge per month.
According to a.Zhumagulova. the urbanization rate in Kazakhstan is currently 57%.
In January-April 2018, 1095 cases of infant mortality under the age of 1 year were registered in the republic.
In 1984 he graduated from the Almaty Institute of Architecture and Construction with a degree in civil engineering.
The number of unemployed in August 2018 was estimated at 442.3 thousand people.
The number of unemployed according to estimates in September 2018 amounted to 441.9 thousand people.
In January-March 2018, the infant mortality rate was 8.81 per 1000 births.
in the republic as a whole, workers will receive a surcharge of about 29 billion tenge.
non-oil deficit will not exceed 8.4% of GDP in 2019.
this benefit affected 2 million people receiving a salary of up to 25 months.
The number of unemployed according to estimates in June 2018 amounted to 434.4 thousand people.
the largest number of urban settlements in the Karaganda region is 11.
Since 2011, he worked as vice minister of national economy.
In January-December 2017, prices of manufacturing enterprises increased by 17.6%.
From 2020, these standards will enter into force in all settlements.
In 2018 (December 2018 compared to December 2017), inflation amounted to 5.3%.
shayymov aigul amantaevna was born on January 12, 1979 in the Tselinograd region.
within its framework, a demographic forecast of regional development until 2030 will be developed.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 11 regions of the republic.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 14 regions of the republic.
food prices for the year (November 2018 to November 2017) increased by 5%.
Using the examples of 2018, we consider the calculation proposed by the reaper.
1) approval by the government of a national plan for the development of competition and adoption by state bodies of standards for the development of competition;
Ruslan Dalenov by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 25, 2019 No. 855 was appointed Minister of National Economy.
From November 2008 to May 2011 he was deputy head of the representative office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
an additional 90 billion tenge was included in the three-year budget, before that 39 billion tenge was provided. an additional 90 billion tenge is laid in the three-year budget , before it was laid out at 39 billion tenge .
taxable income (current mechanism) - 25,828 tenge.
Since March 28, 2019, he was appointed executive secretary of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the share of exports is 37 thousand tons (11.7%) (Uzbekistan, Tajikistan).
He noted that last 2017 the structure of foreign trade of Kazakhstan has changed significantly.
the share of imports is 183 tons (Russia, Belarus, Poland).
1 child was born in Almaty region on December 1, 2011.
May 24, 2018 on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
industrial products - by 15%, industrial services - by 7.3%.
industrial products - by 20.9%, industrial services - by 7%.
2) data from sample survey of population employment.
for example, taxable income will be reduced by 90%.
This figure is projected to reach 80 per cent by 2050.
Since January 1, 2018, solidarity pensions have increased by 8 percent.
From 2013 to 2015 - in commercial organizations.
Compared to doing business 2018, Kazakhstan increased the distance to the previous limit by 0.19 points.
In 2016, he took the post of Vice Minister for Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Including in 2017, it was planned to implement 461 objects.
To date, 32 entities have been brought to administrative responsibility in the amount of 71.4 million tenge.
Compared to doing business 2018, Kazakhstan reduced the distance to the previous limit by 0.11 points.
650 women entrepreneurs participated in seven trainings and seminars.
On December 21 of this year, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan held a mass legal training for employees of the Ministry and its departments on the topic "some issues of normative activity."
a comprehensive strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025 has been developed.
4) income of enterprises from the sale of goods without cars and motorcycles.
9) income of enterprises from the sale of goods without cars and motorcycles.
this figure should be brought to 30 square meters by 2030.
the total mortality rate was 7.46 deaths per 1000 people.
the total fertility rate was 21.35 births per 1000 people.
the total fertility rate was 21.42 births per 1000 people.
in addition, 28 entrepreneurs participated in a mentoring programme for women.
There are 10 days left before the start of the global challenges summit 2018 forum.
the total natural growth rate was 13.24 persons per 1000 persons.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 13 regions of the republic.
The growth of industrial production volumes was noted in 14 regions of the republic.
Retail Volume Index by Area for January-July 2018
255 objects are for the period of reorganization and liquidation.
in general, more than 2 million people receive such a salary in the republic.
5) transportation of goods by pipelines.
the total fertility rate was 21.65 births per 1000 people.
the total fertility rate was 21.78 births per 1000 people.
the total fertility rate was 21.26 births per 1000 people.
in the public administration system since 2001.
the consumer price index in January 2019 compared to December 2018 amounted to 100.5%.
the budget deficit decreased from 5.3% in 2015 to 4.4% in 2016.
in the public administration system since 1999.
In January-November 2017, 2896 infant deaths under the age of 1 year were registered in the republic.
In January-June 2018, 1,626 cases of infant mortality under the age of 1 year were registered in the republic.
For 10 months of 2018, the exchange's turnover amounted to 106 trillion tenge. for 10 months of 2018 , the exchange turnover amounted to 106 trillion tenge .
over the past 3 years 247.1 billion tenge has been allocated under the joint venture.
In January-February 2018, 587 cases of infant mortality under the age of 1 year were recorded in the republic.
In January 2018, 317 cases of infant mortality under the age of 1 year were registered in the republic.
In January-December 2017, 3,150 cases of infant mortality under the age of 1 year were registered in the republic.
Production of certain types of products in January - February 2018
In 2017, our country became a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
This mechanism will be valid from January 1, 2019.
2 legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Republic of Kazakhstan first began to participate in this ranking in 2008.
Recall that Kazakhstan joined the World Trade Organization in 2015.
Since 2011, a member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission - Minister.
The regular meeting of the public council of the ministry is scheduled for June 11 this year.
unites more than 39 thousand students from 70 countries of the world.
2 July 2014 on improving public administration;
loan term 15 years, interest rate 0.01%.
public reception will last until February 22, 2019.
2 . external technical audit of implementation of investment program measures of monopolist.
more than 40% of the structure of the local economy is accounted for by industry.
The national plan is being implemented - 100 concrete steps.
Within the framework of the EAEU in 2017, a number of important documents were adopted.
2 . introduction of public monitoring of the implementation of investment programs by the government.
The court decision entered into legal force on December 5, 2018.
According to the results of the 2018 study, the Republic of Kazakhstan took 38th place.
6) investments in intangible assets.
Average prices for certain types of food products in November 2018
We preside in January 2018.
5) transportation of goods by pipelines.
10) transportation of goods by pipelines.
The results of the regional rating will be updated in June 2019.
9 new differentiated offences are included in the Criminal Code.
The number of migrants who left the country increased by 32.4% to 4,537 people, the difference in migration was 1,957 people.
in general, the bill consists of 2 parts.
the unemployment rate was 5 per cent of the labour force.
5 . we must identify cash and ahko exchanges.
vegetable oils (reduced from 20% to 10%),
the total fertility rate was 20.70 births per 1000 people.
beef (reduced from 26% to 10%),
steel rolled stock (reduced from 20% to 10-15%),
real wages in January-September 2018 increased by 2.4%.
the total length of the fixed territory is 5 km.
4) providing feedback to respondents and users;
Production of certain types of products in January 2019
Production of certain types of products in January-December 2018
this is 8 times more than all previous years.
Production of certain types of products in January-March 2018
Production of selected products in January-December 2017
Production of certain types of products in January-March 2018
Production of certain types of products in January-August 2018
Production of certain types of products in January-September 2018
Production of certain types of products in January-October 2018
Production of certain types of products in January-November 2018
Inflation in November 2018 amounted to 0.9%.
that is, the volume of SME support is 69 billion tenge per year.
Kazakhstan has been participating in this ranking since 2006.
1) improvement of legal regulation in the field of state statistics;
construction accelerated and in 5 months reached 8.8%.
Kazakhstan's foreign trade in 2017 amounted to 77 billion dollars.
confectionery (reduced from 55% to 20%),
The meeting was attended by all 164 WTO member countries.
peas (reduced from 55% to 25%),
rails (reduced from 5% to 4%),
pasta (reduced from 55% to 20%),
batteries (reduced from 32-55% to 10%).
40% of the population of Kazakhstan is "low-income."
On March 5 of this year, the head of state announced five social initiatives.
rice (reduced from 26% to 15%),
January-May 2018 in January-May 2017, as a percentage
January-July 2018 by January-July 2017, percentage
set of goods and services includes 510 items.
that is, the tax burden will decrease 10 times.
set of goods and services includes 510 items.
set of goods and services includes 510 items.
Kazakhstan, Alma-Ata, November 16, 2018.
dot, greens (fixed by 5%),
According to the minister, economic growth in 2018 amounted to 4.1%.
Since March 27, 2017 - Head of the Council of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
economic growth of 4.1% in 2018.	opening the meeting , the head of the ministry of national economy noted that  economic growth in 2018 was 4.1 % .
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
enforcement of treaties (2 reforms)
for 9 years as vice minister.
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
January-December 2018 as a percentage of January-December 2017
January-August 2018 as a percentage of January-August 2017
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
lamb (fixed at 5%),
in total, 771 people took part in public receptions.
In 2018, 63 countries of the world took part in the ranking.
Inflation in May 2018 amounted to 0.2%.
help by phone: 8 (7172) 743312.
average monthly salary in the IV quarter of 2018
9) Q2 2018 Q2 2017.
5) III quarter of 2018 to III quarter of 2017.
capital, April 27 - Kazakhstan.
In 2018, it grew by 10%.
the first round of negotiations took place in December 2017.
2019 is declared the year of youth in Kazakhstan.
Born November 19, 1962.
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
Nominal monetary income of the population for 2017
help by phone: 8 (7172) 743312.
manufacturing output fell by 5%.
2 . Improving financial literacy.
7) including the turnover of food enterprises.
12) including the turnover of food enterprises.
1) upon receipt of lifting allowance:
service production increased by 4%.
2) January-June 2018 for January-June 2017.
10) January-June 2017 for January-June 2016.
3) January-July 2018 by January-July 2017.
2) January-March 2018 by January-March 2017.
3) January-March 2018 by January-March 2017.
9) January-March 2017 by January-March 2016.
opening of the enterprise (1 reform)
3) January-April 2018 by January-April 2017.
1) January-September 2018 for January-September 2017.
7) January-September 2017 for January-September 2016.
4) January-October 2018 - January-October 2017.
March 26, 2018.
3) January-November 2018 for January-November 2017.
capital, January 16 - Kazakhstan.
capital, January 29 - Kazakhstan.
The law was signed by the head of state on May 24.
2) agriculture, forestry and fisheries.
Here are the 10 challenges we face.
January-July 2018 to January-July 2017
January-March 2018 by January-March 2017
January-August 2018 by January-August 2017
In 2017, the macroeconomic situation improved.
Kazakhstan joined on January 27, 2016.
1) May 2018 by May 2017.
4 . water supply and sanitation.
Astana, June 29 - RK.
capital, February 26 - Kazakhstan.
capital, February 28 - Kazakhstan.
May 25, the capital - RK.
capital, May 21 - Kazakhstan.
capital, May 22 - Kazakhstan.
capital - May 24, RK
capital, June 13 - RK.
capital, June 25 - Kazakhstan.
capital, March 13 - RK
capital, March 14 - Kazakhstan.
capital, March 15 - RK
capital, March 29 - Kazakhstan.
September 12, the capital is Kazakhstan.
capital, September 10 - Kazakhstan.
capital, April 12 - RK.
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
percentage for January-February 2017
The doing business 2019 rating will be headed by a New Zealander.
Able-bodied population over 18 years old
Price changes in construction in 2017
10) May 2017 by December 2016.
8) June 2018 by December 2017.
1) July 2018 by December 2017.
11) July 2017 by December 2016.
8) March 2018 by December 2017.
Kazakhstan, April 21.
8) December 2018 by December 2017.
14) December 2017 by December 2016.
the plan is 97% complete.
1) August 2018 by December 2017.
11) August 2017 by December 2016.
13) October 2018 by December 2017.
January-July 2017 to January-July 2016
January-March 2018 by January-March 2017
January-December 2017 for January-December 2016
January-December 2017 for January-December 2016
rk. February 8th.
February 21 - RK.
rk to you - February 23.
Kazakhstan, September 22.
January-August 2017 for January-August 2016
Kazakhstan, May 28.
June 18 - RK.
capital, February 1-cr.
capital, January 18, 2019
January-September 2018 for January-September 2017
January-September 2018 for January-September 2017
more than 600 people in total.
Kazakhstan, November 30.
Average price in September 2017
capital, June 11-rk.
Kazakhstan, July 5.
January 29 is a year.
Kazakhstan, March 7.
rk to you - March 6.
Kazakhstan, December 14.
January-February 2018 for January-February 2017
5 . compensation rates introduced
Price 1 square meter, tenge
December 20, 2018, capital
133 - 1 805 thousand tenge
as a percentage of January 2018
international trade (2 reforms)
1) estimated data.
percentage to January-August 2017
percentage to January-March 2017
percentage to January-April 2017
(among 140 countries)
percentage to January-September 2017
percentage to January-October 2017
Number of births per 1,000
percentage to January-November 2017
by Q3 2017
iii quarter 2018
118,22 ) 6 ) 7 )
119,72 ) 6 ) 7 )
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
thousand tenge
6) at current prices.
11) at current prices.
capital, January 19th.
2 . gas supply
3 . heat supply
1 . power supply
by Q4 2016
by Q4 2017
IV quarter of 2017
iii quarter 2018
i quarter 2018
percentage by 2016
percentage by 2017
Q2 2018
by Q3 2017
January 2018
January-December 2018
100,42 ) 5 )
101,22 ) 5 )
106 , 22 )
106,42 ) 4 )
107,13 ) 4 )
107,63 ) 4 )
253 242 * ⁾
260 203 * ⁾
260 613 * ⁾
263 098 * ⁾
263 853 * ⁾
264 119 * ⁾
264 788 * ⁾
266 863 * ⁾
277 368 * ⁾
May 2018
June 2018
March 2018
as of November 2017
December 2017
December 2018
August 2018
September 2018
Appendix No. 1
Astana. June 18th. kr uem
October 22.
1 072 703
1 143 145,6
1 404 804
1 430 593
1 485 971
1 622 578
1 804 700
1 844 500
1 858 322,1
10 706 189,0
11 572 513,2
13 515 062,0
13 641 242,0
14 213 439,0
18 809 115,8
19 425 273,9
2 285 344,6
2 315 182,2
2 882 529,2
2 896 652,7
22 998 797,1
24 857 119,2
29 385 664,9
3 182 998,5
3 371 983,4
3 631 818,3
30 493 009,4
4 257 558,3
48 194 780,7
49 918 283,3
51 566 764,1
53 101 281,8
6 448 630,7
7 734 525,7
9 483 735,1
1 square
December 2016
as of January 2017
as of January 2018
for January-December 2017
November 2018
for 2017
In 2018
In 2018
for 2017
as of May 2017
as of July 2018
March 2017
as of April 2018
December 2015
December 2016
as of December 2017
as of December 2018
as of August 2017
as of August 2018
as of September 2017
as of October 2018
as of November 2017
as of November 2018
as of February 2018
+ 17
+ 2
+ 21
+ 5
1 003
1 007
1 016
1 021
1 035
1 040
1 048
1 051
1 059
1 072
1 077
1 084
1 091
1 095
1 100
1 115
1 116
1 117
1 127
1 146
1 153
1 202
1 205
1 218
1 232
1 289
1 297
1 302
1 303
1 320
1 324
1 329
1 333
1 335
1 338
1 341
1 359
1 364
1 367
1 369
1 372
1 384
1 404
1 417
1 421
1 430
1 435
1 444
1 446
1 455
1 460
1 483
1 500
1 506
1 519
1 522
1 543
1 550
1 580
1 583
1 592
1 623
1 685
1 696
1 702
1 725
1 728
1 731
1 745
1 808
1 811
1 814
1 852
1 907
1 948
1 949
1 974
1 994
10 028
10 901
10 954
10 990
11 014
11 030
11 045
11 078
11 123
11 139
11 154
11 157
11 220
11 236
11 262
11 313
11 356
11 358
11 362
11 387
11 392
11 423
11 481
11 505
11 533
11 547
11 596
11 643
11 645
11 703
11 732
11 737
11 741
11 749
11 788
11 789
11 847
11 851
11 869
11 882
11 898
11 910
11 923
11 929
11 995
113 703
114 206
114 273
114 496
114 523
115 007
115 513
118 834
12 007
12 086
12 111
12 120
12 171
12 236
12 257
12 307
12 310
12 466
12 533
12 879
12 910
13 116
13 183
13 290
13 323
13 387
13 433
13 462
13 481
13 498
13 539
13 594
13 614
13 621
13 634
13 714
13 732
13 764
13 828
13 840
13 865
13 881
13 883
13 908
13 918
13 924
13 951
13 961
14 006
14 060
14 082
14 095
14 131
14 147
14 234
14 305
14 344
14 351
14 359
14 386
14 408
14 480
14 507
14 542
14 558
14 573
14 579
14 661
14 676
14 697
14 765
14 772
14 804
14 813
14 860
14 866
14 877
14 919
15 013
15 042
15 046
15 050
15 120
15 135
15 235
15 317
15 322
15 344
15 480
15 741
15 780
15 818
16 030
16 062
16 066
16 214
16 269
16 380
16 525
16 736
16 764
16 916
16 999
17 052
17 120
17 272
17 293
17 361
17 584
17 775
17 963
18 046
18 161
18 171
18 236
18 279
18 349
18 394
18 480
18 499
18 728
18 753
18 902
18 936
183 754
184 430
185 664
185 836
185 942
185 965
186 564
189 127
19 333
19 630
19 636
19 883
2 000
2 021
2 051
2 102
2 133
2 154
2 202
2 287
2 310
2 339
2 384
2 416
2 424
2 474
2 776
2 843
2 886
2 918
2 958
20 874
20 995
21 083
21 170
21 330
21 435
21 690
21 725
21 973
22 149
22 285
22 355
22 702
23 460
23 471
23 840
233 697,3
24 224
24 341
24 423
24 476
24 511
24 543
24 617
24 717
24 753
24 788
24 934
24 968
25 000
25 026
25 048
25 141
25 237
25 241
25 305
25 316
25 384
25 565
25 628
25 879
26 008
26 081
26 092
26 108
26 196
26 327
26 376
26 440
26 468
26 496
26 508
26 656
26 683
26 858
26 915
26 933
27 048
27 349
27 356
27 701
27 850
27 893
28 620
28 690
29 146
29 626
3 104
3 246
3 287
3 303
3 317
3 320
3 341
3 355
3 399
3 425
3 623
3 779
3 787
30 756
30 907
31 003
31 126
31 403
31 429
31 440
31 857
31 970
32 660
32 811
33 021
33 037
33 155
33 362
33 444
33 600
33 628
33 634
34 050
34 097
34 351
34 675
35 000
35 151
35 500
35 525
35 692
35 702
36 152
392 042,7
4 030
4 498
4 528
5 037
5 511
6 099
6 769
6 875
606 063,8
7 315
7 574
8 790
8 859
866 324,2
869 669
9 081
9 389
9 393
9 448
9 487
9 527
9 598
9 646
9 761
936 497
991 294
db 2018
db 2019
▲ 10
▲ 12
▲ 2
▲ 3
▼ 1
▼ 2
▼ 3
▼ 5
December 2015
105 478
119 227
125 510
136 700
148 155
159 307
159 647
160 769
179 203
201 793
234 734
250 654
269 478
281 950
297 470
305 702
310 842
388 413
390 647
456 920
484 586
2017
2018
0
1
100
102
1023
1030
1076
1077
1083
1091
110
1136
115
1153
1170
118
119
120
1202
121
1221
123
125
1259
126
1272
128
130
1305
1331
1333
134
135
137
1374
140
1419
1423
1429
1454
1486
151
1518
153
1533
1542
1547
1559
156
1568
158
160
1630
164
165
167
1679
168
169
17
170
171
172
173
1730
174
17766
1787
179
18
1813
1819
182
1824
1830
184
185
1860
1867
1868
1870
1872
1875
188
1881
190
1928
193
195
1956
196
197
1978
198
1992
2
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
202
2021
2030
204
207
208
210
212
213
214
215
216
2168
218
219
220
224
225
226
228
231
2315
232
233
2338
234
2351
238
240
2411
2416
242
2428
245
2450
246
24919
250
2501
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
2595
260
261
262
2639
2674
268
269
270
272
273
274
276
280
281
283
284
285
2879
288
289
292
2935
295
297
2975
3
30
3028
303
305
3063
308
3083
310
3112
312
313
314
316
3162
3164
317
318
3192
3193
3196
3207
322
323
3233
324
3256
326
327
329
33
330
3315
335
336
337
338
340
341
342
343
344
345
347
348
35
352
354
355
356
357
36
361
362
3649
365
3661
367
368
37
374
376
377
379
383
385
386
387
39
390
397
4
40
401
403
404
407
408
41
411
412
414
420
422
423
424
426
428
430
431
433
44
441
442
445
447
449
45
450
453
454
455
458
459
461
462
464
468
471
473
474
475
485
487
489
490
496
499
50
503
507
509
51
510
511
513
515
518
52
520
521
525
526
529
532
538
548
549
553
555
556
56
560
569
57
575
58
580
582
59
591
593
595
597
599
6
60
61
610
612
615
616
617
618
619
62
622
629
630
631
647
649
650
652
654
658
661
667
669
67
674
676
678
683
69
690
692
697
698
699
70
700
709
71
715
7153
716
72
720
723
727
729
73
733
734
739
747
755
757
76
760
762
768
77
770
783
785
79
792
794
803
804
81
812
823
824
83
830
833
841
843
847
85
850
858
859
86
860
861
862
868
869
87
872
874
876
879
880
885
902
905
908
92
925
928
933
94
943
956
957
959
96
965
97
974
978
980
985
99
990
995
997
