this will lead to the need to develop universal skills.
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
Timely pay
first results of the pilot project
it is also prohibited to engage in pedagogical activities for persons with mental and behavioural disorders under the supervision of a doctor due to incapacity.
Interview about the rules for providing housing for young people: where to go and whom to give privileges
Energy Minister Bozumbayev reported on the production of aviation fuel and its price.
successful entrepreneurship
engineering networks in these drylands.
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
oil production at large refineries is now at a high level
an effective financial system
preparing for mams bulk implementation
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
December 05, 2019, 12:43 PM
Measures Taken to Stabilize Prices of Socially Important Food Products
ensuring safe working conditions
To increase scholarship to students studying by work qualifications
they thanked Kazakhstanis for the opportunity to get acquainted with the historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan, works of ancient and medieval art through a unique exhibition project.
digitalization
The exhibition is organized as part of the international exhibition project "Golden Man Parade to Museums of the World," the press service of the National Museum of Kazakhstan reports.
tax administration
good public administration
in the education system
about starting the mobile application
analysis results to determine causes of price increases
Kazakh Prime Minister holds meeting of National Council on qualification
earmarking grants
The Ministry of Justice, together with members of the interdepartmental commission on legislative activities, has developed a draft plan of legislative work of the Government for 2020.
today, the main mechanism for price stabilization is the stabilization fund
following the meeting, the chairmen of the committees signed a protocol.
Pilot Project Objectives
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
standards of universal modern education
prevention of collective labour disputes
as a result, the time of customs declaration (a. smailov)
Interview on tourism development in Kazakhstan: what interests foreigners and which region leads in ecotourism
in health care
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
situation in enterprises attracting foreign labour
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
Smagulov appointed Deputy Head of the Prime Minister's Office
the government is constantly working to improve the draft laws being developed - expert
deputy request for simplification of permits for the construction of small buildings in the village
customs administration
the government is constantly working to improve the draft laws being developed - expert
working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the Mangistau region
Public-private partnership will also be applied in the construction of schools.
Following the visit, new tourist routes, high-quality photo and video banks will be created for the country's natural objects.
The event was dedicated to World Environment Day.
Until 2023, through all sources of financing, it is planned to build 319 multi-storey houses (20,794 apartments or 2,109,3 thousand m2).
How many roads will be repaired before the end of the year, which roads will be paid and who will check their quality - with an interview with barmak
mandatory condition for participation in the competition - collection of the UNT limit score.
According to him, energy enterprises buy fuel in accordance with the approved schedule under the contract.
his headdress is especially pronounced.
Today, the Committee on Statistics collects prices for socially important food products on a weekly basis every Tuesday.
among the objects found in the door mound, a special place is occupied by a silver bowl with the inscription of a runic painting of one of the ancient written monuments.
Also, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held intergovernmental negotiations with the kohir of rasulzoda.
Local authorities are also tasked with resolving current issues related to the daily and safe crossing of the railway by the public and vehicles.
we need professional standards and educational programs that meet modern challenges and rapid changes in the labor market.
this is due to the growth of cabbage production in the Turkestan region.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, an archaeological sensation occurred in the suburbs of Almaty, during which a well-known archaeologist discovered the remains of a "golden man" - the Saki tsar, who later became a symbol of Kazakhstan.
Work is underway to eliminate the demand for 27 certificates (a. Zhumagaliyev)
a. Working visit of specialist to North Kazakhstan region: launch of new production facilities and implementation of GP
we need to mobilize all efforts to urgently rebuild the city of Arysh.
The 30-year-old Aktobe businessman worked in many places to exchange experience.
A. Mamin proposed to develop and implement a joint plan for the phased abolition of roaming of mobile operators within the EAEU.
among the three large groups of these tribes were the Sako-Tigrahaudy ("pigs"), located in the territory where the door mound with the burial of the "golden man" was found.
We must restore the museum in the dock, repair the exhibits inside.
microcredit should not be simply a distribution of money at lower interest rates.
As a result of reaching the financial closure of the waaage project, the issue of the project implementation mechanism is being considered.
a. Working visit of specialist to North Kazakhstan region: launch of new production facilities and implementation of GP
a resident of the Karasai district of the Almaty region appealed to the Basarkel Anis for a reception with a request to build a bridge at the white-breasted railway crossing.
During the working trip to Karaganda region, the Saparbayev berdybek got acquainted with the experience of mobile employment centers.
The Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions, in turn, made a report on proposals for further improvement of labor relations.
Governor of Almaty region a. Batalov and akim of nur-sultan a. Kulginov reported on the discussion of the provisions of the bill with representatives of the pedagogical community.
roofs were repaired here, windows were installed, some facilities remained to be redecorated
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan explained how reserve citizens are appointed to posts.
the results of these works can be seen after we understand the difference between the five overhead lines, "said P. Foster.
income administration focused on taxpayers at high risk of misconduct.
In this regard, a group of deputies of the Majilis of Parliament took the initiative to develop a bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of labor issues.
An entrepreneur from Almaty raised the issue of reducing the cost of air tickets along the Atyrau-nur-sultan route.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in Semey: a plan for the development of the city until 2025 and preparations for the 175th anniversary of abai
the priority of zoomorphic images, considered an important feature of ancient steppe art, is also determined by the criteria of mythological thinking.
import substitution measures provide the domestic market with 100% domestic products (lobster)
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in Semey: a plan for the development of the city until 2025 and preparations for the 175th anniversary of abai
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the development of the bank on the example of the work of the Rodina agricultural company
Long-term sectoral programmes to increase meat and milk production to increase livestock production.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance, one of the priorities is to increase the impact of the quasi-public sector.
the priority of zoomorphic images, considered an important feature of ancient steppe art, is also determined by the criteria of mythological thinking.
rehabilitation of facilities in fixed sectors of regions.
availability in the registry of trusted products, which includes only domestic developers, is the main criterion for entering the preliminary qualification selection.
In addition, for professional immersion, the doctors of the perinatal center will attend training in the Lithuanian city.
In the village of maileshak of the Kazygurt district of the Turkestan region a. Mom took part in the opening ceremony of the instant food factory.
scientific oncology center consists of 6 floors, including the lower layer.
felt products should be distinguished among crafts.
among the objects found in the door mound, a special place is occupied by a silver bowl with the inscription of a runic painting of one of the ancient written monuments.
Chairman of the Board of Kazakhtelecom JSC Yesekeev told about this project.
exhibition clothing with gold patches and gold slices in the form of arrows, a snow passage, an arcar, a horse and a bird is a reconstruction of a golden man in a special conical headdress and burial along with this young white-skinned soldier (according to archaeologists about 17-18 years BC). a collection of archaeological finds.
these trends are clearly manifested in art jewelry found in tombs dating from the 15th century.
A single republican base of waiting lists is being introduced to ensure transparency in obtaining housing and a single systematic accounting.
In the center, children aged 12 to 18 years will learn to work in horse breeding using modern technologies.
Monitoring of transport and cargo travel to fully levy value added tax on imports.
In July of this year, Kazavtodor announced an investment competition for the introduction of a white paid system.
in this case, the main current problem is that the State does not regulate labour legislation.
to do this, it is necessary to solve the problem of falsification of products in the market of cheese products, poultry meat, sausages, etc.
projects are financed both at the expense of investors' own funds and through second-level banks and subsidiaries of Kazagro Holding.
with the establishment of Christianity and Muslims, the "brutal style" gradually began to lose its original meaning, emanating from worship and understanding.
it is also proposed to grant the right of the mother caring for the child to participate in active employment measures when the child reaches the age of three.
these trends are clearly manifested in art jewelry found in tombs dating from the 15th century.
In addition, the wages of employees of private companies receiving the minimum wage have been increased.
Work is underway to eliminate the demand for 27 certificates (a. Zhumagaliyev)
lists of grant holders are published by akimats in local media.
At the same time, an application quality assessment service is introduced.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in Semey: a plan for the development of the city until 2025 and preparations for the 175th anniversary of abai
equipping classrooms with advanced technologies will allow students to develop the skills of future professions.
In July of this year, format and logistics control was established on the web portal, which does not allow customers and suppliers to sign an act of origin without introducing certificates, including st-kz.
On the main directions and activities of the Comprehensive Development Plan of the city of Shymkent akim of the city of Abdrakhimov.
As part of the working trip, Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev and the Governor of the region nurlan nogayev met with the public of the region.
the roof of the wave sports school requires major repairs.
According to the results of the monitoring of public procurement, the largest amount of procurement for image events was accounted for by local budgets.
assistance in the employment of unemployed and self-employed citizens.
citizens who are allegedly not insured today can participate in the system as independent payers.
Parents of children with special needs will also receive substantial support in the near future.
housing per resident reached 21.9 square meters. the indicator of housing provision per resident has reached 21.9 sq.m.
Construction is carried out on 4,504 individual residential buildings and multi-storey residential facilities.
construction work is underway at 4225 individual residential and multi-storey residential facilities.
47 officials dismissed for violating the safety requirements of nurymbets)
ensuring environmental safety at deposits, protection of natural resources.
temporary reduction of import customs duties on certain types of raw materials and spare parts.
The Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry noted that today, with the support of local authorities, horse hubs are opening in the regions of the country.
the next big project is a single platform of Internet resources of state bodies (mo irbp).
animal husbandry is the leading industry in the agro-industrial complex of the country.
on questions requiring additional study, the Deputy Prime Minister instructed to answer in accordance with the law as soon as possible.
promising interaction in the energy sector taking into account global trends of changes in the energy industry.
Director of the Department of Renewable Energy of Kazakhstan Ainur Sospanova said this in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке.
The head of state also examined plans to create a linear park and got acquainted with the restoration of the city watermelon.
B. Saparbayev noted that holding a forum at the excavations named after al-Farabi is of particular importance:
on the basis of screening, a questionnaire of entrepreneurs and housewives is provided.
Chairman of the Majilis Nurlan Nigmatulin opened the meeting.
including s. Suleimenov noted that in order to prevent the outbreak of fire and prevent the consequences of electric current of people as a result of emergency situations, retro-reflective networks of the city of Lviv were disconnected from the main substation.
increase the availability of health services by increasing their funding - a. Zhumagulov about mom
Within the framework of the Hope of the Country initiative, we are implementing a number of projects aimed at supporting young people.
as part of the introduction of the health insurance system, the availability of a number of services will increase: expensive diagnostic services - funding for them will increase by 3 times, dental services - their funding will increase by 2.3 times.
In 15 regions, the volume of industrial production increased (b. atamkuls)
since childhood, all four suffer from a rare Duchene erba-oral myopathy, which affects the musculoskeletal system.
when drawing up a plan of legislative work, the deadlines for introducing bills were proposed by State development bodies.
the number of houses restored before sunset in the city of arys reaches 2 thousand.
Loans under the program became available to rural residents.
In total, 144 items from the funds of the National Museum of Kazakhstan will be presented at the exhibition.
they are provided by payment or voluntary health insurance.
due to the successful implementation of the programs, the volume of production in livestock increased (p. Lobster)
growth is ensured by the sale of credit products of Kazagro Holding.
its implementation will allow villagers to provide themselves and improve the quality of life.
the city of Almaty provides a fifth of the gross domestic product of the republic.
This year, a comprehensive plan for the resolution and prevention of labor conflicts was approved.
in most cases, employees are paid less than regular employees.
A striking example of such a contradiction is the excitement in the form of a double leopard with a patch of gold characteristic of the 5th-4th centuries, presented at the exhibition, with molding and relief techniques.
scarcity of transport capacity and scarcity of aircraft to meet demand are the main problem of the high cost of air tickets.
According to him, the purpose of today's exhibition, organized in Ankara of the Republic of Turkey, is to familiarize itself with the historical and cultural fraternal Turkey, which has developed in the great steppe strip of Eurasia from the early Iron Age to the present.
the main inflationary factor is the increase in consumer demand in response to significant fiscal measures as part of the increase in social spending from the budget.
During the construction of a 50-megawatt solar wind station, up to 300 builders will be involved in the implementation of the project.
r. dalenov also noted qualitative changes in the structure of the labor market.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the city of Shymkent and Turkestan region
I want to note that the execution of each order should be strictly monitored and determined by a clear deadline.
prevention and prevention of offences without initiating administrative proceedings, as opposed to selective checks of preventive controls.
The Head of Government visited the agricultural machine-building enterprise Kazakhstan Agro-Innovation Corporation LLP.
b. sagintayev informed the head of state about the results of the expanded meeting of the political council of the city branch of the party.
Particular attention was paid to attracting large foreign investors in the field of hunting.
and the remaining villages are provided with the technical capability to organize the Internet using satellite communication technologies.
with the introduction of compulsory social health insurance.
Long-term dairy programme is aimed at import substitution of dairy products.
working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the Mangistau region
because this is the main locomotive that attracts tribute.
The Deputy Prime Minister also instructed to consider holding accountable the heads of the health department and the department of public health in connection with the current situation.
The implementation of the project will provide high-speed Internet services in 1,250 rural settlements.
its proof is the annual increase in mutual trade.
funding will increase by one and a half times the previous five-year period.
The reconstruction of a number of hotel complexes in the city of Kokshetau was also considered.
manufacturing and mining were the drivers of growth.
they create beautiful works of applied art inspired by the nomadic way of life, the traditions of our ancestors.
Following the meeting of the commission, a decision will be made to enlist candidates in the presidential youth reserve.
To date, exhibits dedicated to the inexhaustible history of the last day have been visited by countries of Europe and Asia, "said the Director of the National Museum of Kazakhstan.
An informal ministerial meeting is being held at the initiative of the members of the council to consider the interim results of the discussion and to identify further steps to achieve the substantive results of the upcoming ministerial conference.
As a result of the study by researchers of the topography of objects in the reserve, it was possible to recreate the appearance of the Saki warrior presented at the exhibition.
Also, M. Dosmukhambetov spoke about the state of fuel supply.
at the same time, poultry meat consumption is also growing at an increased rate.
Incentives are being taken for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The Deputy Prime Minister also visited a multidisciplinary medical center, which provides highly specialized assistance in the treatment of malignancies.
The parties noted the importance of developing a system of exchange of experience in the field of providing banking services to citizens.
The marathon in Aktobe is one of the first events held as part of the initiative of the head of state "Hope of the country."
The purpose of the exhibition is to familiarize a foreign viewer with the rich historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan.
a. smailov assured that gas distribution networks will be phased in to connect to the Saryarka gas pipeline.
they are issued from the local budget or other sources of funding.
The application implemented 31 services and services, by the end of this year it is planned to implement 32 additional services.
now there are seven such sports grounds in Shymkent.
Together with the Office of the Prime Minister, a bill will be prepared for submission to the Majilis of Parliament.
these tools will enable local executive bodies to contain price increases as effectively as possible.
the number of reports based on the results of chamber control increased by 2 times.
expanded range of products and increased production volumes.
measures taken will allow to unlock entrepreneurial potential, to form a business climate.
also present a new direction of application of new technological research in applied arts.
Further improvement of the quality of life and well-being of the population remains priorities.
monitoring and monitoring of the restoration of facilities is carried out daily.
B. Sultanov expressed support in promoting investments that are currently being discussed on his initiative.
To further improve the business climate, a package of 8 legislative initiatives is being developed.
if for any reason he quit and did not try to find a job.
The volume of foreign currency purchase is agreed monthly.
The main consumers of the products will be transformer plants in Russia and Belarus.
Next fall, the 1150-year anniversary of al-Farabi is celebrated.
for example, when calculating the limit of the debt ratio, the subsistence minimum belonging to each minor family member will be deducted.
Todd Levy noted that today the maritime situation in the region is stable.
The evening, which took place in the sports palace, ended with the performance of the stars of Kazakh pop.
Each graduate is given an information sheet along with a UNT certificate.
part of these funds will be used to eliminate the consequences of the emergency in the city of arys.
import substitution measures provide the domestic market with 100% domestic products (lobster)
Nuzigul agan sought help in providing the group with disability to his son.
ahko has a special legal regime that takes into account the best practices of the world financial structures.
all this is due to the presence of vacancies in the public service.
Compared to 5 months last year, expenses were exceeded by 1.2 trillion tenge.
and b. nurymbets elaborated on the main issues of labor relations regulation.
it is important to make the most of the existing potential and instruments of the financial market.
Next fall, a summit of the heads of Central Asian states will be held here.
including e. Tuganov expressed the position of the federation of trade unions regarding borrowers.
the working visit of the Deputy Prime Minister will continue with growth in other areas of the region.
The second task of the program is to provide the population with high-quality drinking water.
he is already working in pilot mode in Aktobe region.
He noted that the basis of the changes is the spiritual modernization of society.
hot and dry summers this year led to a decrease in cereal yields.
The Ministry of Agriculture participates in the implementation of the state program "Labor" to provide microcredit in rural settlements and small towns.
It included heads of ministries and regional akimats.
with this system, citizens will be able to track prices for socially significant food products online from the point of view of regions and specific stores, as well as take a direct part in price monitoring.
How many roads will be repaired before the end of the year, which roads will be paid and who will check their quality - with an interview with barmak
The parties discussed the implementation of the agreements reached in the framework of the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Russia in April this year.
Governor of Akmola region e. Margykpayev reported on the socio-economic development of the region.
college graduates entering paid tuition according to their profile.
Further modernization of the pension system through the creation of long-term actuarial models.
Further, participants plan to go around special places in neighboring Uzbekistan.
according to estimates, inflation will be in the target corridor in the forecast interval.
candidates to participate in the selection in the reserve must register on the website pkrezerv.kz.
these documents should be ready by the end of the year.
berdybek saparbayev thanked active youth.
A plan of measures to prevent and prevent tensions in enterprises involving foreign labour is being developed for the implementation of the tasks set. to implement these tasks , the action plan is being developed to prevent conflicts in enterprises attracting foreign labor .
among the mounds were found details decorating clothes, as well as more than four thousand gold products with jewelry and household items.
investment is attracted in an environment of increasing global competition.
An analysis of the situation in the main commodity markets will be carried out and a road map will be developed to remove barriers to competition and prevent abuse of monopoly position.
To optimize the current situation, Berdimukhamedov instructed to take urgent measures.
The issue was immediately discussed with representatives of the Ministry of Defense.
working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the Mangistau region
to date, he holds the position of Vice Minister of Energy.
at the same time B. Saparbayev drew attention to the importance of concluding collective agreements.
in terms of growth, manufacturing is ahead of mining.
at the same time, the growth rate of expenditures does not exceed the growth rate of gross domestic product.
and when the project is completed, the number of employees will be from 10 to 30 people.
the second level is the mam package for the insured population, which ensures the availability of extra-budgetary medical care.
Amendments are made to existing regulatory legal acts.
we have more vacancies than demand.
As part of the implementation of the action plan, a separate set of measures is being developed to increase local content in the procurement of subsoil users and backbone enterprises.
Now work is underway at more than 500 facilities, where more than 2,000 builders work.
airlines use dynamic pricing.
The mja mechanism is successfully used for the construction of student dormitories.
the Single Window components are being tested today.
consultations under the programme.
According to the application of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the demand for diesel fuel is fully satisfied.
the time has come for such action!
In order to support the livestock industry, it is planned to purchase forage wheat this year.
for the first time, mentoring was seen as a separate direction in the development of teachers.
the second set of amendments contains clarifying rules regarding ahko activities.
Today, the accumulated fuel reserves are enough to begin the heating period, "said S. Suleimenov.
Berdybek Saparbayev, head of the regional health department, asked the Aymurziev manshuk and the head of the public health department to comment on the causes of high infant mortality in the region.
the main obstacle is low investment attractiveness.
Since May of this year, 1,480 large families have been provided with housing.
The program aims to increase the export potential of beef and lamb.
the necessary funds will be allocated and appropriate decisions made.
I entrust the leadership of the region to take the situation in the perinatal center under personal strict control.
he's a. on amending the order banning the export of light oil products from the country by road.
Prospects for increasing sales of agricultural products.
the main thing is that these subsidies are determined to increase productivity.
A striking example of such a contradiction is the excitement in the form of a double leopard with a patch of gold characteristic of the 5th-4th centuries, presented at the exhibition, with molding and relief techniques.
In total, more than 600 boys and girls take part in it.
The volume of lending for the purchase of domestic cars will be increased fivefold.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister emphasized the importance of timely provision of medicines to the population.
The meeting also discussed issues of compliance with the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in particular, the introduction of vertical control of subsoil users against contractors and subcontractors to ensure safe working conditions and residence of workers in enterprises.
Thus, daily builders repair more than 200 houses requiring reconstruction.
it is planned to supply products not only to the domestic market, but also to foreign markets.
To further improve the shipping efficiency indicator, modernization of loading and unloading equipment and reconstruction of the berthing structure of the whitewash port are planned.
as a result of which there is an increase in prices for imported goods.
visiting guests, foreigners should familiarize themselves with how the Kazakhs lived in the VIII-IX century, what they did.
Kassymbek noted that the first results of piloting for the introduction of mams in the Karaganda region prove the priority of high-quality and timely medical care for the population.
the tasks set out in the message should be strictly completed within the established time frame.
personal issues at the reception were also considered.
One of the main areas of Kazakh-Russian cooperation is industrial cooperation.
at the same time, quotas for attracting foreign labor to the akimats of the regions should be formed after a comprehensive study of the labor market and ensure an increase in local content in the personnel of employers attracting foreign labor.
the need to develop electronic trading platforms was also noted.
as a result, the entire roof was removed to rebuild it.
How many roads will be repaired before the end of the year, which roads will be paid and who will check their quality - with an interview with barmak
diploma - under the program, housing loans were issued to 17 thousand specialists (b. Dalen)
one of them is intended for hospitals and clinics, the second for the emergency medical service.
there is also a decrease in prices for AI-92 gasoline.
The Eurasian Economic Commission was informed about the progress of work to eliminate restrictions and barriers in the eurozone domestic market that impede the creation of a single market for goods and services.
Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Marat Daushev in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке noted that after the creation of the presidential youth personnel reserve, the selected participants will be trained.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Chakrabarti signed document on modernization of healthcare infrastructure of Kazakhstan
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in Semey: a plan for the development of the city until 2025 and preparations for the 175th anniversary of abai
this structure is planned to be created on the basis of the center for the rapprochement of cultures under the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of kazakhstan
inspections of the territory showed that the environmental situation was not under threat.
because children do nothing after school.
jewelry of a golden feather on the crown of an ancient field ruler became part of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a statue of a golden man was installed on Independence Square in Alma-Ata.
Applicants will submit the following documents to the Youth Policy Office:
Now in the city of Arys, construction work has been completed in a 1544 private residential building, in 7089 reconstruction and repair is underway in a private residential building and a 96 multi-storey building.
the share of cup in gin increased by 28.5% (b. Dalen)
Caspian Sea resorts can receive several million tourists annually.
presidential youth personnel reserve: what you need to know to enter the top 300
the amendments proposed by the bill can be divided into two blocks:
In April of this year, Parliament passed the seventh legislative amendments.
at the same time, with. Barmakov noted that all contracting organizations involved in the construction of roads are interested in quality work.
The Ministry of Agriculture proposes to improve existing government support measures by eliminating inefficient subsidies and moving to results-based subsidies.
verification of essays and design works is carried out in the online system.
investors can independently receive any information of interest to them, whether it is planned, implemented projects.
To implement the public-private partnership project, it is planned to attract an investor from Turkey.
I want to especially note that this year, on behalf of the Head of State, a republican state enterprise was opened on the right of economic management "National Center for the Quality of Road Assets."
from. According to Omarov, as for the increase in prices for some goods, this is not due to a decrease in production volumes.
among the mounds were found details decorating clothes, as well as more than four thousand gold products with jewelry and household items.
It should be noted that targeted social assistance is provided only to those in need.
in turn, at. Moser praised the approaches to improving the investment climate and expressed the readiness of the American side to continue cooperation in the existing format.
a. Mamin is one of the leaders of the engineering industry of Kazakhstan. the Kirov plant got acquainted with the technological modernization of the "White and Peter and Paul Heavy Engineering Plant" (pamz).
opening new directions, pricing and training of specialists - how civil aviation is developing in Kazakhstan
Today, the fiscal authorities of China and Kazakhstan are conducting relevant work through electronic communication channels in the framework of the concluded protocol on the exchange of preliminary information from export declarations.
2 mini-workshops for the production of plastic windows were opened here.
in the global competitiveness index, the ministry has 8 indicators.
Deputy Prime Minister stressed the need to strengthen the activities of public councils.
in the region created favorable conditions for the creation of an ecosystem in the equestrian industry.
Children's centres will be opened in the regions to support survivors of violence.
today, since May, 1,480 large families have been provided with housing through investment and the attraction of sponsors.
however, exempted funds remain in the industry.
the potential of non-governmental organizations should be involved.
at the same time, M. Kozhakhmet drew attention to the main criterion - the applicant has a permanent place of work.
the Nur Sultan hosts a world summit of oncology leaders.
the general sowing campaign is not bad.
developed various price containment mechanisms.
The most important thing is the opportunity to get a good education.
in industry terms, the main increase falls on the non-primary sector.
As a result of the study by researchers of the topography of objects in the reserve, it was possible to recreate the appearance of the Saki warrior presented at the exhibition.
Also, Minister of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan B. Sultanov met with the main ambassadors of WTO member countries to discuss the possible substantive results of the upcoming ministerial conference.
and also a. smailov noted that taking into account the current situation on the world market in order to modernize the conceptual approach in the field of export development, Kazakhstan's export strategy will be revised.
Another measure of support is the purchase of goods of the light and furniture industry by means of preliminary qualification among holders of industrial certificates.
reducing the debt burden on consumer loans of the population.
A large-scale project to create an environmentally friendly Baiterek space rocket system at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, which was renamed the Nazarbayev Launch on the initiative of the Russian side, will recently begin.
Recall that 85% of houses in the Lviv region need repair.
funds allocated under the program are used only to provide loans in approved areas without the possibility of acquiring notes from a national bank or other financial instruments.
Four facilities have been completed and are being handed over on time.
the people gave you the appropriate powers through the party.
the determining factor is the income of the population.
The program for the development of entrepreneurship among the unemployed and self-employed, including youth, people with disabilities provides for the following tools:
the concessionaire carries out construction and installation work at its own expense.
One of the main goals is to increase the standard of living of our compatriots.
Deputy Prime Minister was interested in the system and efficiency of the center.
after visiting the archaeological museum-reserve, the Saparbayev berdybek noted the need for a number of repairs here.
diploma - under the program, housing loans were issued to 17 thousand specialists (b. Dalen)
for its part, Kazakhstan calls on Jordan to join the Islamic Organization for Food Security (akiu), which promotes the creation of a system of food mutual assistance within the framework of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (IPU).
There are more than 900 enterprises in Kazakhstan with the participation of Dutch capital.
it provides for bringing funds to the regions based on the per capita standard, depending on the number of children of school age.
The Head of Government noted that the President sets large-scale tasks for the leadership of Almaty city.
As a result of the study by researchers of the topography of objects in the reserve, it was possible to recreate the appearance of the Saki warrior presented at the exhibition.
among the mounds were found details decorating clothes, as well as more than four thousand gold products with jewelry and household items.
Special attention was paid to promoting the export of Kazakh products to the EU.
To educate future champions, it is necessary to develop youth sports, promote sports and a healthy lifestyle among the population.
4e is used.
the potential of non-governmental organizations should be used here.
Training of qualified professionals.
rental housing without the right to buy back for employed youth
During the talks the prospects of deepening Kazakh-Tajik cooperation were considered.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the private water utility of Water Resources - Marketing LLP Shymkent.
Another important goal is to increase wages.
the focus is on real support for young people.
The proposed project is aimed at implementing the main tasks set for the country in the medium term.
Now the leading European experts of the British agency will provide technical support to Kazakhstan for the implementation of European safety standards.
The purpose of the agreement is to organize cooperation in the field of exchange of information on vehicles and goods of international transportation transported across the customs border of the Eurasian Economic Union and the People's Republic of China.
The Governor reported on the implementation of the comprehensive plan and topical issues of the development of the city nur-sultan. Kulginov.
timely and qualitative implementation of the action plan will ensure the well-being of citizens and solve social issues.
As a result of the study by researchers of the topography of objects in the reserve, it was possible to recreate the appearance of the Saki warrior presented at the exhibition.
a. Working visit of specialist to North Kazakhstan region: launch of new production facilities and implementation of GP
in other regions, the full readiness of autonomous boiler houses is ensured.
In 2344 houses, the main restoration work was completed.
So, from 2014 to 2017, about 500 Kirovets tractors were sold in the country.
In conclusion, Deputy Prime Minister Abdykalikova gave a number of instructions to state bodies.
In Karaganda region, from September 1, piloting will begin in preparation for the introduction of a system of compulsory social health insurance.
Within the framework of the memorandum, Russia and Kazakhstan intend to conduct joint research and activities aimed at the development of public spaces and the urban environment.
work is scheduled to be completed in December this year.
Improvement of public services will continue with the Ministry of the Interior.
the strategy will include opportunities such as reducing or replacing the use of coal and gas in various economic and energy scenarios.
The products produced in Kazakhstan not only meet the needs of the domestic market, but also contribute to the development of export potential to foreign markets.
By 2025, at least 3000 MW of installed capacity will work.
the use of this promising world trend contributes to the growth of mutual trade and contributes to the promotion of exports of goods to the markets of third countries.
collective agreements.
Advocacy.
The project was implemented in June this year as part of the agreements reached between the governments of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the creation of a joint textile cluster.
The parties confirmed their intention to continue the implementation of the agreements reached to increase the volume of supplies and expand the range of Kazakh products.
Chairman of the Board of JSC "Samruk-kazyna" a.esimov, Chairman of the Board of "ktzh" uk, "Chairman of the Board of" Kazmunaigaz "uk" a.aidarbayev made presentations at the meeting.
akim of Mangistau region e. Tokzhanov reported on measures taken to ensure the socio-economic development of the country.
The activities of the Atameken Mobile Employment Centre are aimed at training young people in the basics of entrepreneurship and subsequent employment.
the bill provides for exemption from the services of ahko participants.
the share of cup in gin increased by 28.5% (b. Dalen)
proximity to the Western Europe-Western China transport highway plant will optimize logistics processes.
this stage also includes assessment of competencies of candidates.
Karaganda residents were the first in the country to establish employment centers in crowded places, such as large markets and train stations.
currently, the "golden man" is the main symbol of independent Kazakhstan.
tax holidays will be granted before the end of the current year;
a feature of the project is the introduction of new technological developments of the production cycle within the framework of the "industry 4.0" program.
To date, more than 7.8 thousand grants have been issued.
To support the cultivation of crops on an area of ​ ​ 3.1 million hectares, 2,169 subjects of the agro-industrial complex were financed.
now there are about 600 joint ventures in Uzbekistan with the participation of Kazakhstani capital, in Kazakhstan more than 1 thousand enterprises with the participation of Uzbek capital, including more than 400 joint ventures.
through paid or voluntary health insurance.
among the mounds were found details decorating clothes, as well as more than four thousand gold products with jewelry and household items.
as a result, this will lead to higher prices for some goods.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in gross domestic product increased to 28.5%.
it should be further supported.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, everyone should think about what contribution he made to the development of his country.
students listened carefully to the business advice of a respected guest and experienced leader of the capital and pushed them to themselves.
In the future, participants will enter the ancient scales connecting trade routes between Asia and Europe, located in the center of the great silk road.
social and entrepreneurial corporations gained independence in the formation of reserves of the stabilization fund in terms of the time and amount of goods purchased and its sale.
payments, fees not provided for in the tax code.
test materials were delivered to the regions with confidentiality.
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the stone laying ceremony on the Caspian Sea at the construction site of the new project.
alikhan smailov noted that the necessary funds are allocated annually to develop the real sector and increase the competitiveness of its industries.
these trends are clearly manifested in art jewelry found in tombs dating from the 15th century.
In order to strengthen the control and monitoring of the stable functioning of departmental systems, the Prime Minister instructed at the level of each authorized body to establish the personal responsibility of the deputy first head in charge of this issue.
effective implementation of the strategic tasks of the presidential election platform will solve social issues.
In total, 8,637 houses were repaired in the city of arys, including 7,166 residential buildings.
in the event of fraud and corruption, the relevant materials will be promptly sent to law enforcement agencies.
As of August 1 of this year, 261.5 billion tenge was allocated by the holding to support the clan.
The purpose of the exhibition is to familiarize a foreign viewer with the rich historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan.
today a base of potential health care providers has been established.
In total, 84,580 residential buildings were commissioned in the republic.
The main thing is to work.
training citizens in the basics of business.
According to the results of the work of the operator of the lending program of Agricultural Credit Corporation JSC, 2012 applications from agricultural producers totaling 60 billion tenge were accepted, of which 1912 agricultural producers were financed in the amount of 55.9 billion tenge.
during the construction of the capital there were issues related to financing.
also visited a medical outpatient clinic in the village of Evgenievka.
the decrease in export volumes is due to an increase in domestic gas consumption.
through this system, it is possible to control socially significant food products in specific stores with the division of regions and online.
r. According to Dalenov, the extraction of metal ores in the mining industry is provided by an increase in the production of non-ferrous metal ores by 18.4%.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan B. Saparbayev noted that the largest number of self-employed Kazakhstanis live in Zhambyl region and noted the importance of the project proposed by the Governor's Office of the region.
subsidized destinations have been revised and inefficient passports have been optimized.
The contractual obligations of the private partner are fully fulfilled.
intergovernmental agreement on counter-terrorism cooperation;
a. Working visit of specialist to North Kazakhstan region: launch of new production facilities and implementation of GP
transfers and grants to local executive bodies.
secondly, given the shortage of modern-format warehouses, socio-entrepreneurial corporations have the opportunity to make forward purchases of socially significant food products.
why are we growing evidence of juvenile delinquency and suicide? why is the number of legal offenses and suicides increasing among young people ?
Over 5 months, 1,462 audit events were held.
Chairman of the Committee on Youth and Family Affairs of the Ministry of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке madiyar kozhakhmet commented on questions about the quality of rental housing for working youth.
a. According to Smailov, the action plan focuses on increasing the responsibility and accountability of public servants for the implementation of state programs and the use of budget funds.
more than 10 laws needed to be amended to address them.
now the fund is considering such projects as a leadership program, a system for determining the potential of children, incentive tools (including collecting experience in leading universities in the world), a system of grant support for Olympiad winners and talented youth.
in the railway industry, modernization of the friendship-neck section and electrification of the shah-aktogai section are provided.
First Vice Minister of Finance b. sholpankulov introduced a bill to supplement the constitutional law on ahko.
from November of this year, administrators should begin to announce competitions for public procurement for 2020 at the expense of budget funds of all levels.
The Anti-Corruption Agency (Anti-Corruption Service) is a law enforcement agency that identifies, suppresses, discloses and investigates corruption-related criminal offences.
On August 17 of this year, model rules for the implementation of mechanisms for stabilizing prices for socially significant food products entered into force.
A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan not older than 35 years of age who has a higher education and a total work experience of at least 5 years may be enrolled in the presidential youth personnel reserve.
the forum discussed in detail the concept of continuing education, as well as the education of future leaders and the formation of an industrial-academic ecosystem.
B. Saparbayev noted that the main thing in this matter is the prevention of labor disputes and conflicts.
Proactive measures have been implemented to involve unemployed and self-employed citizens in productive employment.
Comprehensive measures of social support for children from low-income families will also be organized, including the allocation of 5 thousand educational grants this year, and the provision of free travel in public transport.
and free hot meals in schools for students, free travel to school daily, and school uniforms and teaching aids.
The third task of the program is aimed at the modernization and development of the housing and communal services sector.
Children should spend their leisure time as effectively as possible.
it is proposed to expand the law on state targeted assistance with the introduction of a guaranteed social package for children from low-income families.
To avoid timely payment and reduction of wages, a roadmap on labour risk has been drawn up.
Within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," the possibility of obtaining loans and subsidies for the construction of wholesale distribution centers within the framework of the economy of simple goods has been created.
The lagging akimats were voiced the need to take radical measures to resolve the situation on problematic indicators.
State housing authorities are tasked with finalizing the mechanism for the allocation of housing to working youth and accelerating the launch of the mechanism for granting preferential loans to low-income families for the purchase of housing.
Maintaining basic subsidies in crop production.
How many roads will be repaired before the end of the year, which roads will be paid and who will check their quality - with an interview with barmak
in addition, training and internship are provided.
During the presentation of the new head, the staff of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted the high qualification of the Raymkul actota and wished success in achieving the goals set for the department.
Deputy Prime Minister noted that the new development plan of the city of Turkestan was adopted in connection with its acquisition of the status of a regional center and aimed at meeting the needs of residents of the city, tourists, whose number is growing.
the project will give impetus to the development of venture finance and innovative entrepreneurship, thereby providing startup companies with venture capital.
Askar Mama also with the general director of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Dmitriev, chairman of the board of Vnesheconombank. shuvalov, head of Russian Railways OJSC. belozerov and the head of the holding "rosgeology" p. Conducted separate negotiations with Gorkov.
During the meeting, the implementation of the instructions given at the meeting in May of this year was considered.
In the direction of subsidizing commercial mortgages for the population, the Kazakh mortgage company approved applications totaling 36.2 billion tenge.
Interview on tourism development in Kazakhstan: what interests foreigners and which region leads in ecotourism
According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the annual need for tractors in Kazakhstan is about 1600 tractors.
Governor's offices were instructed to accelerate the approval of model regional rules for the implementation of mechanisms for stabilizing prices for socially significant food products and to start purchasing products in stabilization funds in advance.
The Governor's Office of the capital, together with interested state bodies, was instructed to implement the measures of the comprehensive plan in a timely and qualitative manner, take the necessary measures to develop a complex for the construction of facilities around the capital, accelerate the completion of the construction of problematic shared construction facilities.
Mom teaches people to be responsible about their health.
the bill provides for increasing the responsibility of employers in terms of creating decent working conditions for workers, transferring labor contracts to electronic format, etc.
About 3.5 thousand large families received grants.
During the working trip to Turkestan, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the construction of the Country of Great Steppes Center, the Yassaui Museum on the territory of the historical and cultural center under construction.
As of July 16, 1,172 houses were restored in the city of arys.
similar festivals are planned throughout the republic.
as part of the task of unified accounting of priority, a single republican base of persons in line until the end of the year will be introduced.
provision of some medical services from the package of compulsory social health insurance, determination of the status of insured persons, separate accounting of financial instruments.
for example, a real Uzbek asked to resolve housing issues for the family of the deceased grandson.
another multidisciplinary hospital will be built in Turkestan.
To date, a bill has been drafted to approve the tasks and responsibilities of employers to create equal working conditions for workers, and to introduce a modern system of labor protection management.
debt repayment will be completed by the end of August.
therefore, we have a shortage of personnel everywhere.
in particular, it provides for the creation of an open system of subsidizing passenger transport, as well as the prevention of the use of hidden transit schemes, the protection of the rights of consumers of access roads.
in the capital, the Nur-Sultan is nearing completion of the creation of an assembly and testing complex of spacecraft, which allows you to create and test satellites for various purposes in the framework of cooperation between enterprises in Kazakhstan and France. in the framework of cooperation between kazakh and french enterprises , the creation of the assembly and testing complex for spacecraft , which will allow the assembly and testing of satellites for various purposes , is nearing completion in our capital , nur-sultan .
meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 06.11.2019
no damage to the technological heating network in the city was recorded.
According to the results of 2018, the rating will be published in December of this year.
he also noted that there is a clear plan of measures for the import substitution of these 6 goods.
increase the availability of health services by increasing their funding - a. Zhumagulov about mom
I sincerely congratulate you on your professional holiday!
the contract is scheduled for December this year.
as well as the arys-1 railway station, which is a monument of history and architecture of local importance.
The number of cities with a million population reached 3.
To improve the quality of communication between akimats and telecom operators, the installation of additional base stations in these areas has been worked out.
attention is also paid to drug provision and drug pricing.
The purpose of this platform is to increase the creative, technical and financial capabilities of communities working in the field of repair of industrial equipment of EAEU member states by consolidating the financial and administrative resources of member states, enterprises aimed at intensifying the innovative development of repair technologies of member states.
Karaganda region is the first region to introduce compulsory social health insurance in a pilot mode.
product labeling is aimed at the flexibility of Ajin counterfeit products and increasing competitiveness among entrepreneurs.
lack of specialists, especially in the field of acmola.
familiarization with industrial development continued during the inspection of the work of the Kazakh-Russian joint engineering enterprise Kamaz Engineering.
in particular, the construction of an iron production plant and a mining and processing plant is envisaged.
EEC instructed to prepare a document defining ways to develop trade and economic cooperation with the main partners of the eurozone for the medium term.
from. As noted by lobster, the growth of livestock production is associated with the successful implementation of credit programs.
more than 30 large trade facilities are being built in the regions and more than 50 trade markets are being modernized.
in addition, the requirements for the equity of banks in the provision of consumer loans without collateral under prudential regulation are increasing.
official statistics are published every Thursday.
The fourth stage is the interview of participants at the expert commission.
industrial production continues to grow steadily.
The first month of testing Mams in the Karaganda region showed that the health system is ready for a large-scale introduction of health insurance throughout the country from next year.
B. Saparbayev noted that not only anti-corruption agitation, but also raising the salaries of employees of budget organizations are aimed at eliminating bribery.
in my opinion, today our main task is to quickly and effectively increase the number of cattle.
Monitoring and monitoring of the construction of houses is carried out daily under the leadership of the Vice Minister of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kairbek Rostenbaev.
In order to expand mutual trade between Kazakhstan and China, an agreement was concluded to increase the supply of Kazakh export products to China, including energy and agricultural products.
In addition, the National Bank reviews the procedures carried out by banks and microfinance organizations to forgive fines and penalties accrued as part of its monitoring and oversight functions.
in the main grain regions, unstable weather.
The parties discussed a draft agreement on harmonized approaches to the regulation of currency relations and the adoption of liberalization measures.
also on the agenda issues, Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan e. dossiers.
this package includes such types of health care as a full range of medical care for socially significant diseases and major chronic diseases, including ambulance, air ambulance and emergency inpatient care, medicine at the place of registration of free medical care.
The annual increase in the number of projects and creative works submitted to the organizing committee proves the popularity and necessity of the competition.
in addition, a bill has been drafted "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts on issues of teacher status, reducing the burden on teachers and students."
the sage managed to raise the national spirit to an unprecedented height, popularizing the greatness and features of abai, perseverance and determination and its penetration into the consciousness of his nation.
creation of a unified basis for accounting of jobs opened, new professions and atlas of competencies.
"golden man," which is a symbol of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Minister of Health e. birtanov reported on the developed three-level system of medical support for the population.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in Semey: a plan for the development of the city until 2025 and preparations for the 175th anniversary of abai
in the framework of public-private partnership, it is planned to attract foreign investors.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, an archaeological sensation occurred in the suburbs of Almaty, during which a well-known archaeologist discovered the remains of a "golden man" - the Saki tsar, who later became a symbol of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, the head of state took part in a concert in the spiritual and cultural center of the city, where he met with residents of the Turkestan region.
Because these products, which entered popular culture in the early era, propagate the history, spiritual life of the whole country, "said the art expert and curator of the exhibition Armatas Bektas.
7,785 builders continue to rebuild the city.
when familiarizing a military specialist, b. noted the many years of experience of the sultan in senior positions.
on the third day it is planned to cross the border of Kyrgyzstan.
in this regard, the Government, together with Atameken, conducted a country screening to determine the sources of growth in the regions.
competency assessment will be carried out by experts using a group assessment system based on the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan.
You assume a difficult path to success.
positive developments are also expected in the field of education.
The masterpieces of ancient and medieval art of Kazakhstan presented at the exhibition are only a small part of the works of the former nameless masters demonstrating the uniqueness of the heritage of Eurasian steppe culture.
people will be provided with quality drinking water.
Working visit of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan to Pavlodar region: industrial-innovative development of the region and implementation of infrastructure projects
Within the framework of the project office created under the government, the ministry is considering attracting investments for electricity generation through garbage disposal.
Within the framework of the meeting of the Kazakh-Turkish intergovernmental commission, which is planned to be held in Ankara on November 11 of this year, a business forum will be held.
deputies unanimously approved the proposed candidacy.
According to A. Zhumagaliyev, as a result of the transfer of public services to electronic format, no more certificates from the population are required.
According to the parties, the modernization of production will improve labor productivity and conditions at the enterprises, will give an additional impetus to increase oil production at the fields.
To effectively address the implementation of investment projects in promising export-oriented industries, a coordinating council for foreign direct investment and a foreign direct investment fund have been created.
familiarization with the development of the agricultural industry continued during a visit to the meat processing complex for the production of beef "kazbeef group."
the issue of payment of wage arrears is under special control.
Together with the local executive bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, work is underway to provide textbooks, commissioning educational facilities, and organizing transportation of children.
most of them are represented in the preschool sector.
parents must do their part.
During the visit to the industrial form, the Head of Government of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the technology of producing modular block rooms from expanded concrete and reinforced concrete products, including the "smart house" option, which includes about 100 functions of intelligent housing.
The long-term programme for the development of meat husbandry provides for the establishment within 10 years of 80,000 family farms in meat husbandry and sheep breeding, working in cooperation with fattening areas and meat processing plants.
47 officials dismissed for violating the safety requirements of nurymbets)
this will fully meet the needs of the domestic market at the expense of domestic refineries.
The preparation of coal and fuel oil reserves necessary for housing and communal needs and the population is carried out in accordance with the plan.
the farm has the degree of a breeding plant for raising cattle of chernozem and Holstein-Frisian breeds.
production processes continue in normal mode.
R. sklyar noted the need to solve issues related to the lag of some educational, health care institutions, as well as housing facilities from the schedule.
in addition, according to A. Turchin, production cooperation remains among the priority areas of cooperation.
According to the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, most personal subsidiary farms do not receive high income from solving organizational issues.
The basis for the denial of targeted social assistance to families not in need of targeted social assistance.
for example, in the territory of the Shchuchin-Boron resort zone and the city of Nur-Sultan, together with the akimats, the issue of building special masts was positively resolved.
import substitution measures provide the domestic market with 100% domestic products (lobster)
currently, the company compensates the needs of most customers in Kazakhstan.
According to A. Mukhamediula, the main exhibit of the exhibition is the "golden man."
during a visit. Mom talked with local elders and specialists who directly participated in the aftermath of the fire.
C. As noted by lobster, the sowing campaign was carried out at the optimal time using quality seeds.
Deputy Prime Minister b. In turn, Saparbayev noted that in the implementation of compulsory social health insurance, special attention should be paid to the timely transfer of funds by employers.
they cover more than 2.7 thousand professions.
70 projects provide for the opening of dormitories for students.
Altai kulginov noted that from next year akimat on a systematic basis will support the holding of children's Paralympic competitions.
monitors for video broadcasting are installed in UNT points.
the pilot will test the provision of some services from the health insurance package, identification of the status of insured persons, separate accounting of funds.
The Governor reported on the continuation of the construction of the light rail project in the city of Nur-Sultan. Kulginov.
Askar Mama also instructed to update the existing action plans within a month and adopt a new action plan to further improve Kazakhstan's position in international ratings, as well as to work out in program documents the issue of approving target indicators to improve Kazakhstan's position in these ratings.
In an exclusive interview, the Deputy Chairman of the Agency for State Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat daeshov spoke about the ongoing work on the formation of the presidential youth personnel reserve.
In order to increase incomes of the population, the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region plans to implement a set of measures, including:
their task is to put the remaining housing facilities into operation before August 20.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister a. Mom thanked the deputies for the fruitful joint work, open and constructive proposals to hear the government's report on the implementation of the republican budget for 2018.
Note that the names of the forum participants were at the al-Farabi Museum, dedicated to the cultural heritage of the great thinker transferred to the university.
forum participants not only demonstrated their capabilities, but also held working meetings and negotiations with potential partners in the format of b2b (business-to-business).
also preliminary considered changes and additions to the corporate governance code of the company for subsequent approval by the sole shareholder.
Kassymbek also informed about the restoration of the Arysk city of Turkestan region.
The head of government instructed the Ministries of Agriculture and Labor and Social Protection of the Population to submit the mechanism for the implementation of the pilot project by the end of September, as well as to ensure proper monitoring of the timely achievement of published indicators.
each akimat allocates funds whenever possible.
In more than half of the village, it is necessary to repair the streets.
eliminate environmental damage in kind, that is, normalize disturbed components of the environment.
the exhibition presents the works of masters from the yurt and tapestry of different regions of the country, works of the art gallery "arlan design," works of teachers and students of the Kazakh National University of Arts.
in addition, a number of obligations will be financed, requiring urgent decisions through internal redistribution of funds in the amount of 35.9 billion tenge.
In 751 of them, finishing work is underway.
there is a high level of wear and tear in utilities.
including B. Atamkulov spoke about the training of domestic qualified personnel for the civil aviation industry.
A roadmap has been approved to address systemic budget planning issues and improve the use of public funds on the recommendations of Parliament and the Accounts Committee.
daily control over the loading of textbooks from publishers.
the regional tourist cluster includes more than 700 objects.
The Head of Government visited the third generation Morskoye plant under construction, which is being built as part of the future expansion project implemented by Tengizshevroil LLP.
Eurasian intercontinental corridor launched.
to increase the investment attractiveness of wholesale distribution centers, we propose to attribute the construction of wholesale distribution centers to investment priority projects.
The Ministry of Agriculture adopts and implements long-term sectoral programs for the development of livestock industries within the framework of the State Program for the Development of Animal Husbandry for 2017-2021.
Implementation of a single housing policy.
The accounting and financial center for supporting hatred in the structure of the system operator kegoc is determined by a single buyer.
thanks to government support, the investment attractiveness of the industry is growing, which will allow us to meet target indicators for attracting investments in fixed assets.
In addition, representatives of the two states spoke in detail about the history of Macedonia and Kazakhstan, their mutual identity and common views and expressed hope for the further development of cultural ties.
it also noted the main criteria for obtaining housing.
More than 220 children took part in it.
creative works of participants are published in a special collection.
support for low-income, large families. support for low-income families and mothers with many children is also being removed from the agenda .
Executive Vice President for Exploration and Production of Chevron Corporation Fields D. During a conversation with Johnson, issues of the project to expand the future, further increase Kazakhstan's content on goods and services in the Tengizshevroil project, as well as the development of joint measures to improve working conditions and social security of Kazakh workers were discussed.
women who have completed crafts, open their businesses, eventually turn them into a family business.
Along with the production and transportation of chevron energy carriers, the nuclear plant of polyethylene pipes (apkz) and the plant of cable pipe fittings (orders), etc. provides operation.
the opening of the bypass road of the capital will increase the efficiency of the city's transport system, increase the speed limit of vehicles and reduce the time costs of drivers, as well as improve the environmental situation in the city of nur-sultan.
Each year, 32.8 billion tenge is allocated to provide rental housing without redemption of socially vulnerable persons, consisting of 3.7 thousand queues.
currently, the population attached to primary health care organizations is 18.7 million people.
In addition, in support of the mams system, veterans of the health system expressed their opinion to the highest category doctor, MD, Professor Abai Baigenjin and former Minister of Health, MD.
forum participants not only got acquainted with their capabilities, but also held working meetings and negotiations with potential partners in the format of b2b (business-to-business).
only domestic raw materials are used in the production process.
in order to limit systemic problems and uncontrolled growth of citizens' debt in the future, by the end of this year, the national bank adopts the necessary regulatory acts on the regulation of lending entities, including online lenders, credit associations and pawnshops.
Within the framework of the EEC meeting, a list of measures to implement the main directions of macroeconomic policy of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union for 2019-2020 was approved.
the third level is medical services that are not included in the packages of the MMC system and mams.
The Ministry of Finance is constantly improving risk management systems, which will allow to more accurately select the entities for control and increase the effectiveness of the measures.
A. Mamin instructed the Ministry of Energy and Akimat of Akmola region to work out as soon as possible the issue of providing all electricity facilities to the balance of the atec with continuous electricity supply, as well as consider the possibility of reducing the difference in tariffs.
As part of the labor risk map in November of this year, 170 problem enterprises located in the risk zone with more than 359 thousand employees were monitored.
we introduced a practice where the employment of each graduate is confirmed by a certificate of pension contributions, but found a way out.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. Nazarbayev noted the 25th anniversary of the initiated idea of ​ ​ Eurasian integration and the 5th anniversary of the signing of the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
improvement of the public procurement system will be aimed at improving the skills of suppliers, supporting domestic producers, as well as ensuring transparency of procedures.
the priority of zoomorphic images, considered an important feature of ancient steppe art, is also determined by the criteria of mythological thinking.
Proper screening will be ensured with the Ministry and law enforcement agencies.
it is also planned to develop secondary education programs by the end of the year, taking into account professional diagnostics and orientation towards the choice of the future profession of students.
all cars are equipped with GPS sensitivity, medical support for ambulance crews meets high standards of category "c."
at the same time, despite the harvesting season, there is an increase in prices for several goods by tens of percent.
In cities, special attention is paid to accelerating the construction and modernization of sewage treatment facilities (ktn).
Adjustments to planned work are constantly being made.
particular attention was paid to the network of local roads.
the problem is the differences in legislation and inter-operator tariffs.
Now this initiative has become a family business, we opened a small workshop with brides.
this reduced the psychological pressure of schoolchildren and allowed them to prepare for the World Cup.
they were formed mainly due to taxes.
The main sectors are as follows:
Citizens with incomes over 3.1 living wage are available program "7-20-25."
Shymkents were able to ask their questions to deputy prime ministers and ministers, express wishes and proposals.
The main efforts in the field of digitalization will focus on ensuring the uninterrupted operation of the e-government portal, automation and optimization of public services, operational integration of information systems, as well as outreach to receive electronic services.
As A.Smailov noted, the implementation of the agenda fixed for 2030 plays an important role in solving such world problems as saving humanity from poverty and global "recovery."
Along with measures to simplify customs procedures in transit through the territory of the countries of the union, the single transit system of the eurozone, currently being developed, should become an effective tool.
in the railway industry, it is planned to modernize the friendship-neck section from the republican budget and electrify the bearing-Aktogai section.
due to the fact that earlier during the flood the old bridge was flooded, communication with the villagers was interrupted.
do it in accordance with modern standards.
According to M. Daeshov, after selection to the presidential personnel reserve on the basis of the detailed profile of the reserved, training is provided for specially developed programs before appointment to the post, based on their abilities, skills and potential.
a. Mamin instructed the Ministry of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources to ensure compliance with obligations and monitoring to reduce emissions to the environment in accordance with the Paris Agreement.
an electronic register of domestic manufacturers has been compiled, requirements have been made for mandatory reflection of the origin of materials when accepting the work performed in the design and estimate documentation.
additional sources of economic growth are planned to be created through the redistribution of funds to support the manufacturing industry, lending to the "Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan" to provide housing loans to investors, the reconstruction of hydraulic reclamation systems of demanded irrigated lands of Pavlodar and Aktobe regions, as well as the implementation of a pilot project for the development of rural cooperation in Zhambyl region.
The purpose of the joint exhibition of kazaqgeography and the National Museum of Kazakhstan is to popularize and popularize works of applied art with support for the work of craftsmen and youth in this area.
a mechanism for providing tax credits.
customs administration focuses on improving the reliability of the declaration of goods, reducing grey imports and inconsistencies in customs statistics.
It is worth noting that this bill will allow the akims of the regions to independently solve the issues of providing material assistance to teachers as far as the budget is possible.
The volume of production of aircraft fuel will fully satisfy the needs of the domestic market due to domestic investments. the volume of jet fuel production allows to fully cover the domestic market demand at the expense of domestic refineries .
upon admission to the university, the entrant selects a specific educational program for further study.
At the end of the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the dairy farm of Aktobe Meat Processing Plant LLP and Ice LLP to implement investment projects in the field of agriculture.
residential buildings are provided with heat, hot water through gas supply (e. basil)
Kamaz Group of Companies is the largest automobile corporation in the Russian Federation.
in general, the measures taken will solve the problems of citizens in need of housing as soon as possible. in general , the measures taken will ensure the solution of housing issues of citizens in need of housing in a shorter time .
development of breeding, improvement of productivity and quality of livestock products.
they also ensure transparency in the selection procedures for programme participants and verify their compliance with the criteria.
therefore, as a board of directors and a board of directors, we need to carry out systematic work in order to increase trust in the activities of the fund by the population and business representatives.
To increase confidence in the current exchange rate policy, awareness-raising work on the situation in the foreign exchange market and communication with professional market participants and the population will continue.
2. This Order shall be enacted ten calendar days after the date of its first official publication.
The protesters cleared the territory of the embankment of the reservoir of garbage and set up special gardens for garbage collection.
It should be noted that due to the high output in these countries, the demand of traditional importing countries also decreases.
a. Mamin proposed expanding the participation of controlling states in the mechanisms of interaction of member states in the railway sector, accelerating the introduction of an automated system for issuing permits for the transport of goods by road and approving a program for the development of joint roads of member states.
73.2 km railway line project bypassing Almaty station
cleanup objects are managed automatically today.
the President adopted a clear action plan for the implementation of his election program.
today our party is faced with the task of consolidating society, consolidating the elite around the greedy and generous Tokayev elected from the party. today , our party faces the task of consolidating society , rallying the elites around the country 's president-elect kassym-jomart tokayev .
The costs of the healthcare system within three years should increase at least one and a half times - from 1.3 trillion tenge to 2.5-3 trillion tenge.
Askar-mom went into the rebuilt private houses in the city of arys and talked with their residents.
the project is aimed at import substitution, the plant processes gas into methanol and produces other components that allow producing more than 40 products.
Following the visit to the facilities, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan chaired a meeting on the reconstruction of the Arysian city.
investment subsidies will stimulate the renewal of the machine and tractor fleet, contribute to the modernization and creation of new enterprises in the agro-industrial complex, including issues of import substitution and the realization of export potential.
The head of government met with the leadership of the "fourth center of the industrial revolution" of the World Economic Forum (WEF). discussed promising areas of cooperation in the field of regulation of innovative technologies with samance.
Currently, the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared changes to the State Program for the Development of the Agro-Industrial Complex for 2017-2021, taking into account the election platform of the Nur Otan party to saturate the domestic market with domestic products.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the city of Shymkent and Turkestan region
local residents take part everywhere.
in April-June of this year the loan portfolio increased by 3.5%, to 12.9 trillion tenge by 433.6 billion tenge.
According to the results of 9 months of this year, the volume of industrial production in Kostanay region amounted to 862.8 billion tenge (volume index - 115.1%).
Since the implementation of this direction by the Development Fund in the direction of subsidizing loans from private developers, projects have been signed for subsidization totaling 99.8 billion tenge.
the system of assessment of local executive bodies will be revised, the competence of akimats of three major cities will be expanded, the number of operators of housing programs will be reduced, the institute of legislation research under the parliament will be created.
with the introduction of a green tariff, more than 1.5 million tons of waste are disposed of annually.
Of the planned 4,990 km of heating networks, 4,943 km of heating networks or 99.1% were repaired during the current period.
K. Boranbaev noted the importance of state support in the development of the Paralympic movement, as well as successful cooperation within the framework of public-private partnership, based on the example of pjo.
would also improve their ecological status.
in this regard, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance noted the need to intensify activities within the framework of the Coordinating Council for the Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals, which includes representatives of interested state bodies and a group of countries of the world.
implementation of the investment program in the pharmaceutical industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan, plans for further modernization of the company's production areas, cooperation with Kazakhstan pharmaceutical companies.
mechanisms are being improved and support will continue with local executive bodies.
A. Mamin drew the attention of government members to the fact that mediation in labor issues is not widely used.
The criterion for selection will be the assessment of proficiency not in theoretical knowledge, but in logical thinking and practical skills.
to do this, it is necessary to complete the formalization of the self-employed population, increase the guaranteed amount of free medical care and the level of awareness of mamsa.
if previously people got into tourism because of one or another benefit or ease of passing exams, now we see a conscious choice.
This year, more than 1.5 thousand applications from more than 100 universities in all regions of the country were received by the organizing board to participate in the forum competitions.
The way in which existing barriers to business are addressed does not allow for transparency and efficiency in decision-making. the current procedure for eliminating the barriers faced by business does not allow for transparency and effectiveness of decisions .
the proposed activities should be considered in an integrated manner.
quarterly specialists of the center hold lectures with qualified employees of the domestic and foreign medical sphere.
According to him, the transition to an automated process will allow a qualitative analysis of the work of the training center.
According to the conclusion of the commission, the work carried out by the Samruk-kazyna Foundation to restore the station of the city of Arys does not destroy its historical and architectural value.
applicants from large families and families receiving targeted social assistance who, according to the results of the main competition, did not receive grants, can apply to local executive bodies to participate in the competition for additional targeted grants, "said A. Aimagambetov.
contributions to wool growth of 3.5 percentage points are.
akims of several regions on the readiness of local infrastructure were also heard.
a few years ago, we introduced a practice where the employment of each graduate is confirmed by a certificate of pension contributions, but found a way out.
By the end of this year, employment promotion measures will cover more than 300 thousand young citizens.
Also this year, an agreement was reached with the Ministry of Transport of the Russian Federation to increase the frequency of flights from 12 to 21 per week on each side by appointing second carriers not affiliated with air astana and aerial fleet along the route "nur-sultan - Moscow."
at that e. Dossaev said that in accordance with the mechanism approved by the national bank to write off accrued fines and penalties for tax-free consumer loans, until July 30 of this year, banks and microfinance organizations are forgiving the debt on the accrued penalty.
In order to improve the position of the country in the lpi rating, within the framework of the public-private partnership project, the Ministry of Trade and Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan is considering the introduction of an electronic system in the information system of the capital-1, which allows integrating the system of import and export operations with the transport and logistics system of the country in terms of the ability to track goods.
Currently, more than 280 houses have been restored.
the project is aimed at creating a network of farms for the transfer of advanced technologies in the field of irrigation, rational use of water resources, fodder production, training and training of farmers, training of qualified personnel.
if the applicant did not have time to collect all the certificates, another day is provided for this.
It should be noted that the accelerated development of small and medium-sized businesses will contribute to a qualitative change in the economy.
the last stage of selection - the candidacy of participants is considered by the national commission on personnel reserve.
In addition, the Ministry of Finance has developed a bill on public procurement, which is aimed at stimulating small businesses.
A component measuring the effectiveness of customs clearance should be highlighted in the global competitiveness index. in the global competitiveness index , a component that measures the effectiveness of customs clearance should be especially noted .
In addition, a teacher of Nikolskaya secondary school of Akmola region spoke at a government meeting, who noted the importance of this bill and noted that the new law pays great attention to ensuring the honor and dignity of the teacher.
The Head of Government noted that due to the high rate of population growth in the city and the region, it is necessary to solve pressing development issues, thereby increasing the investment attractiveness of the region.
The Supreme Council approved a draft agreement on pensions for workers of the Eaeu member states, aimed at the formation, preservation and implementation of pension rights of workers on such conditions and in the order of citizens of the state of employment.
Deputy Prime Minister stressed the need to strengthen the spiritual and moral education of young people and involve them in extracurricular activities.
the drama of its plot is interpreted as the struggle of good and evil, the beginning of light and darkness, the creation of a new life, a symbol of the eternal movement of contradictions and eternal struggle.
Within the framework of the draft State Program for the Development of Health Care for 2020-2025, a set of measures is envisaged aimed at gradually increasing the salaries of medical workers.
Legislative measures aimed at improving tax and customs regimes, as well as stimulating oil and gas chemistry, electricity and renewable energy are being taken to increase investment in the fuel and energy complex.
a. According to Smailov, the state revenue committee clarified the amendments regarding the ban on the export of light oil products from the country by car, so such a problem should not arise.
There is full reason to consider personal subsidiary farms as sources of production and income. there is every reason to consider personal subsidiary plots as a source of production and income .
systematic development of trade and economic cooperation.
involvement of foreign experts in the management bodies of the holding;
the mechanisms for stabilizing prices of socially important food products will now be regulated by documents of two levels:
During the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the Bayan Sulu white confectionery factory, examined the sowing conditions of crops in the areas of Zarechnoye LLP of Kostanay district.
for this period, participants who have achieved high results in the previous stages on the totality of points are allowed.
reporting on new ways of providing medical care, the Minister noted that the Ministry of Health and akims are implementing the approved action plan to improve the quality and accessibility of primary health care for 2019-2020.
more than 1200 people took part in the action.
the drama of its plot is interpreted as the struggle of good and evil, the beginning of light and darkness, the creation of a new life, a symbol of the eternal movement of contradictions and eternal struggle.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of Population B. Nurymbetov noted the timeliness and necessity of the project to improve the well-being of the population of the region, developed by the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region.
He noted that Kazavtodor and White are interested in training their employees and, if possible, try not to attract specialists from abroad.
competitive documentation for the second stage of the competition for the determination of a private partner has also been drawn up.
the average annual production volume over the past three years amounted to 2.52 billion tenge.
By the end of the year, 5 more objects will be launched.
The Head of State visited the new building of the Turkestan region Governor's Office and got acquainted with the intermediate results of the reconstruction of the spiritual and cultural center of Turkestan.
General Director of the St. Petersburg Tractor Plant with the participation of the Prime Minister with. Silvers and President of the Kazakhstan Auto Business Association. Lavrentiev signed an agreement on the entry of PTZ JSC into the authorized capital of the Kostanay Tractor Plant.
at a meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council (EEC) Prime Minister a. Mamin called the priority task in the development of mutual trade the comprehensive elimination of administrative barriers in the eurozone domestic market.
completion of the citadel town reconstruction and the construction of an international amusement park.
The main goals of piloting mams in the Karaganda region, begun on September 1 of this year, are the identification of the status of "insurance" of recipients of medical services, individual registration of services in the scope of free medical care and the medical insurance system, preparatory work with a view to the full implementation of the mams system from 2020.
Distinguished participants were presented with memorable gifts.
the draft code will be submitted to Parliament in September.
according to the plan, the project will be completed on September 1 in Almaty.
a proposal was approved to work out the issue of forming a map of eeo industrialization, which will allow to see each other's mutual plans and correct them in a timely manner and contribute to the formation of production chains within the framework of eeo.
An environmental code is currently being developed, according to which it is planned to stimulate industrial enterprises to introduce the best available purification technologies and radically reduce emissions.
as a result of the reforms, the holding will become a compact and effective financial institution as soon as possible.
Following the meeting, an agreement was signed with the Republic of Serbia on a free trade zone, an agreement on measures aimed at unifying breeding work on animals in agriculture, an agreement on the features of operations with precious metals and precious stones, and a number of other documents.
The budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan will establish a coordinating council to consider the feasibility of financing state programs.
The Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Labour and the Federation of Trade Unions, is tasked with taking measures to identify them early in order to prevent occupational diseases and to strengthen the provision of professional pathological assistance.
in turn, the chairman of the "baiterek" ubh "a. arifkhan" in the direction of construction of credit housing via the mechanism of redemption of bonds by akimats at all stages of implementation of the state program of "Nrla zher" since 2017" by the principle of recoverability "bonds for 310.9 billion tenges, including in 10 months of the current year for 102.9 billion tenges are acquired.
each problem has its own solution.
It is expected that the main negotiating areas on the agenda of the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference will be WTO reform, new global rules in the field of services regulation, investment and electronic commerce facilitation, as well as negotiations on fisheries subsidies.
In turn, the chairman of the board Atameken ukp. Myrzakhmetov spoke about measures to support domestic producers in public procurement of goods of the "economy of simple things."
many factors influence the growth of crop yields both collectively and individually.
these masts are built by individual entrepreneurs, and telecom operators establish base stations there.
The Federation of Trade Unions believes that the occupational safety system should be aimed at preventing industrial injuries and:
In addition, the bill provides that the ahko authorities have the right to adopt acts regulating labor relations and procurement procedures.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the positive results of the implementation of the development strategy of Samruk-kazyna JSC for 2018-2028 and noted the importance of considering proposals aimed at improving the financial situation of the fund's companies and further implementing the privatization plan.
The Ministry of Agriculture has improved approaches to the formation of stabilization funds and introduced a new mechanism to stabilize prices for socially significant food products.
Chairman of the Board of JSC "Samruk-kazyna Sovereign Wealth Fund" a. Yessimov, in turn, noted that all relevant bodies should jointly resolve civil aviation issues.
A feature of the hybrid operating department, opened in Semey first in the republic, is that it allows patients to simultaneously carry out a complex hybrid operation with several open methods and intervention.
this exhibition is held as part of the project "Golden Man Parade to Museums of the World."
5 . assistance in restoration and repair work at the expense of large businesses through ukp. "atameken" within the framework of social responsibility of the business of more than 300 SMEs;
the efforts of the parties in the shortest possible time were carried out repair and restoration work, utility services were involved, which ensured the commissioning of the factory, the work of which has been stopped for many years.
The Prime Minister called on representatives of foreign states that are members of the council to improve the investment climate to closely cooperate in the field of cybersecurity.
12 companies are engaged in their restoration.
In order to assess the effectiveness of business support measures, an analysis of state programs will be carried out this year.
Also, M. Daushov invited all holders and graduates of the international future scholarship to take part in the selection for the presidential youth personnel reserve.
102 of them will be launched this year.
his project has now been developed.
K. Alpysbayev noted that as part of the order of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the fund, together with companies, is working to increase the mobility of the population and increase the availability of air travel by establishing affordable prices.
I instruct the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure the timely purchase of grain by the food contract corporation to stabilize bread prices, "said A. Mamin.
for the widespread use of online cash registers, incentive measures were taken for citizens by drawing a lottery, when buying an online class for business - reducing the amount of taxes paid on the cost of an online center.
The Minister noted that among the issues impeding the development of mass sports, the lack of instructors and methodologists.
Issues of improving the quality of medical services to the population continued during a visit to the regional hospital.
the third level is medical services that are not included in the MMC and Mams packages.
The main concept of the investment tax residency program is to attract the capital of foreign individuals to the country with the possibility of obtaining an investor and his family members a multiple entry visa to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
services are accelerating.
a cooperation agreement was signed between the Institute of Crop Production and Agriculture of Mongolia and the A. Baraev Grain Research and Production Center.
According to him, in the area there are constantly interruptions in the supply of electricity.
To date, a "one window" for PPP projects has been created on the basis of PPPs.
to this end, our self-service sectors and digital CSPs should be noted.
after the project is put into operation, these persons are involved in the protection and escort of the facility, in particular, local residents of nearby villages are involved.
Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Omani Sultanate x. x. During the conversation with Nasser al-Mawali and the Chairman of the Advisory Council of the State, along with Ahmad and Abdullah and Zayed al-Mahmud, it was noted that there is a large potential for developing investment cooperation in the oil and gas, mining and metallurgical and tourism spheres.
350 permanent jobs will be created during its operation, if the second stage is implemented, their number will increase to 550.
at the same time, the bulk of the growth comes from industries and services with high value added.
if the population increases in the future, the interval will decrease.
The agreement is aimed at creating a modern high-tech production of belts and ingots in Kazakhstan.
we have quite built social facilities, they need to make the most of visiting young people in the evening and weekend.
repayment is carried out mainly at the expense of the market.
The main concept of the investment tax residency program is to attract investments with the possibility of obtaining an investor and his family members a multiple entry visa to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to K. Bozumbayev, prices for jet fuel are regulated by the market on the basis of supply and demand.
to improve the working conditions of teachers in rural schools due to the discrepancy in the quality of education between the village and the city in small schools. with regard to the gap in the quality of education between the village and the city in small schools , changes will be introduced in rural schools to improve teachers ' working conditions .
together with the foundation of the first president - head of state, the project "Hope of the Country" recently launched in the act is being implemented.
Speaking about the results of the implementation of the election program and the national plan, the head of state noted possible risks in fulfilling the remaining obligations of the party.
Deputy Prosecutor General M. Akhmetzhanov reported on the ongoing work to increase the effectiveness of work on citizens' appeals.
the percentage of housing commissioning under the annual plan was 75.4%.
Based on this, Ashm leaves basic subsidies aimed at reducing the cost of seeds, fertilizers and plant protection products.
a. Mom and f. opened a Kazakh-Turkish business forum with the participation of representatives of about 500 Turkish and 100 Kazakh business centers.
The Minister of Education and Science said that representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan were sent to the regions to monitor compliance with the UNT technology.
during the month, their ranks were replenished daily from several tens to two hundred.
low-skilled jobs are being reduced.
a decrease in the rate of housing commissioning is observed in the Zhambyl region and the city of nur-sultan.
Since September 1 of this year, schoolchildren and parents can download electronic textbooks on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the initiative of the head of state "Hope of the Country," more than 1000 gifted children will be selected.
Governor of Karaganda region on preparation for medical care in the system of compulsory social health insurance. Koshanov, akim of Almaty region a. Batalov, akim of North Kazakhstan region.
he will exercise due control over the observance of high-quality and effective housing provision, "said kozhakhmet.
Minister of Agriculture from lobster noted that in order to stabilize prices, work is underway to form regional stabilization funds for food products.
these are young people who, as a person, have become a qualified specialist in their field, contribute to the development of the country.
According to him, standard verification mechanisms are used to check the quality of rental housing.
66 social facilities will be repaired "samruk-kazyna."
According to the Ministry of Energy, as of June 7 of this year, the average price of ai-92 gasoline in Kazakhstan is 148.7 tenge per liter, and 192 tenge for summer diesel fuel.
today in Zhambyl region 50 megawatts, in the city of Ereimentau Akmola 45 megawatts of stations, in the Mangistau region 42 megawatts.
the exhibition will feature the symbol of the Republic of Kazakhstan - "golden man."
the main issue for ensuring sustainable economic development and creating productive jobs is attracting a new wave of investment.
In addition, a project was presented to improve the embankment of Lake Kopinsky around the city of Kokshetau.
technological modernization of plants and introduction of modern digital projects.
everything is fine inside the house.
According to the First Vice Minister of Education of Kazakhstan Kairbek Rostenbayev, from 100 to 250 houses are covered daily with restoration work.
In the near future, the development of a roadmap will be completed and the necessary algorithm for optimizing these costs in the national and local budgets will be determined.
From December 1 to 31, the fund conducts procedures for the selection and conclusion of contracts for medical services for a guaranteed amount of free medical care and packages of mothers.
it will also help to correct the social situation and normalize the situation in society.
Last year, all necessary changes were made to regulatory acts to increase the share of Kazakh content.
Mr. Abdykalikova familiarized the interlocutors with the current trends taking place in Kazakhstan within the framework of the third modernization.
Georgia slightly deteriorated its position, dropping from sixth to seventh place.
B. Sultanov said that on August 16 of this year, changes to the rules of domestic trade entered into force.
The implementation of this project will give a great impetus to the development of tourism in the region, this project provides for the creation of about 2,000 jobs.
children must attend various circles and sections, engage in sports, engage in art.
recent exchange of remote sensing data, co-production and commercialization of satellite constellations.
It is worth noting that climate change issues have been included in the national agenda of many states.
civil servants should laugh at their public. civil servants should hear their people and create everything necessary for effective feedback from the population .
According to Vice Minister of Education of Kazakhstan Kairbek Rostenbayev, in the near future additional efforts will be involved with the involvement of 600-700 employees.
In order to increase the availability of housing and increase the transparency of housing policy, by September 1 of this year, all existing housing programs will unite a single housing policy.
in general, there is an increase and renewal of the fleet of aircraft of domestic airlines.
the text of the decree is published on the acorda website.
In addition, the Prime Minister instructed to improve the work of employment centers by moving to an active format of finding and filling vacancies in need of employment.
It should be noted that 8,384 new jobs have been created by loan recipients.
regulatory and technical costs decreased by 2.4 times.
in turn, Deputy Prime Minister B. Saparbayev noted that the appointment of poison is intended for people who find themselves in a difficult life situation.
a. Smailov noted the effective actions of the government of the two countries to protect the interests of Kazakhstan within the framework of the sanctions policy.
As part of the development of health care, it is planned to build a multidisciplinary hospital with 1000 seats through private investment.
to expand the republican action "Road to School" by attracting community and sponsors
Summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of the digital agenda and instructed to strengthen the work on the introduction of digital solutions in the sectors of the economy.
monitoring of the implementation of the approved action plan is proposed to be carried out as part of the work of the project office of the government.
large-scale street reconstruction.
no special limitations or advantages in relation to any education.
The pilot project provides for the provision of microcredit through a trusted agent in the amount of 7.2 billion tenge.
implementation of a privatization plan through the ahco exchange. it is necessary to continue the work begun to implement the privatization plan through the aifc exchange .
no time to expand your back.
in general, a high level of readiness for the implementation of mams should be noted.
R. According to Dalenov, under the program, entrepreneurs will be provided with appropriate support measures.
and the upbringing of the younger generation and the preservation of family values.
The working trip of the Deputy Prime Minister began in the village of Shauldir, Otyrar district, the birthplace of the great scholar al-Farabi, where the delegation got acquainted with the overhaul of the Palace of Culture.
potential investors invest in financial instruments and securities traded on the ahco exchange.
reducing the burden on teachers, rules for exemption from reporting to unnecessary authorities.
the average annual growth rate of gin in the coming forecast period will be 4.4%.
In the regional center, the ascar specialist visited the Saryarka microdistrict under construction, where he got acquainted with the ongoing work to improve the quality and accessibility of housing.
it is planned to use the manufactured products in the future as part of the project of expansion of "seafaring," as well as export to the markets of neighboring countries.
liquefied petroleum gas production for 5 months amounted to 1.28 million tons.
During the visit to the Caspian weaving plant, the head of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was informed about the second stage of modernization of the plant, during which it is planned to increase the production of drinking water to 40,000 m3 per day, which will provide the population of oil-bearing, Karakian, dead end areas with high-quality drinking water in sufficient quantities.
The head of state stressed the importance of ensuring effective management of state shares in joint ventures.
dear employees of the transport industry!
After the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, a set of measures was developed to prepare for the upcoming Olympic Games. after the olympics in rio de janeiro , a set of measures was taken to prepare for the upcoming olympic games .
As of July 20, restoration work on 1620 houses was completed in the city of Arys.
Since the beginning of this year, there has been an increase in production in the field of ferrous metallurgy.
I ask you to carry out your functions in good faith.
units began to work everywhere.
Educational activities are ongoing for beginners.
a new ecocodex is planned to be submitted to parliament in December this year.
an elderly disabled person complained to the mother about the poor quality and untimely provision of rehabilitation and hygiene products provided by solonic social assistance authorities.
During the working trip to Alma-Ata region, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening ceremony of the lubricant plant of Lukoil Lubricans Central Asia LLP in the Ili region together with the Lukoil field president Vagit Alekperov.
the project, being transcontinental, creates a digital telecommunications corridor between Europe and Asia.
you took an oath of hippocrates, so you can not quit your job for a moment, stop treating people! you should not stop your work for a minute , you must continue to treat people further , you have taken the hippocratic oath .
Speaking about the socio-economic effect of increasing the share of hatred in electricity production, a. Sospanova noted that the creation of renewable energy facilities will create new jobs.
the necessary procedures are being implemented today.
today the ice arena works, but the pool is closed due to accidents.
also automated services for accounting and deregistration of the online center.
thus, the full transition will be completed.
In addition, over the years of the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, state support measures have been worked out to update railway rolling stock.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, 7,136 builders are involved in the restoration of the housing stock of the city of arys.
Following the meeting, Berdybek Saparbayev instructed to intensify work on the introduction of a system of compulsory social health insurance and continue work on clarifying the status of the population and its informatization.
increased demand for gas production equipment has led to significant successes in the creation of a gas chemical machine. the increase in demand for gas production equipment has led to significant success in gas chemical engineering .
the number of housing is limited, there can be many more candidates.	the more points , the higher the probability of getting an apartment .	0,70
In order to further develop the financial platform of the country, in particular, the development of the legal jurisdiction of the financial center, members of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved the draft amendments to the constitutional law on akhko.	in order to further develop the country 's financial platform , in particular the legal jurisdiction of the financial center , members of the government of kazakhstan approved a draft amendment to the aifc constitutional law .	0,70
this database will be used to determine the availability of housing among waiting lists, which will ensure the provision of state support to a specific person and the effective use of public funds.	the data from this database will be used to determine the availability of housing for people on the waiting list , which will ensure targeted state support and efficient use of public funds .	0,70
Also during the consideration of the issue, the Governor of Almaty region made a report. Battalov and akim of the city nur-sultan a. Kulginov.	also , during the consideration of the issue , akims of the almaty region amandyk batalov and nur-sultan altai kulginov were heard .	0,70
as well as Mr. Abdykalikova, Fr. Azul assured that in the development of Turkestan and the implementation of the relevant projects of our state, they should comply with international standards for the protection of outstanding historical and cultural monuments, taking into account the status of world heritage.	abdykalikova also told azoulay about the development of the city of turkistan and assured our country 's commitment to the implementation of relevant projects , taking into account the status of the mausoleum of khoja ahmed yasawi as a world heritage site and in accordance with international standards for the protection of outstanding historical and cultural monuments .	0,70
In May of this year, the categorization of ITU projects was introduced in order to move from quantity to quality.	in may 2019 , in order to move from quantity to quality of ppp projects , their categorization was introduced .	0,70
cargo turnover of air and road transport with the main contribution to growth.	the main contribution to the growth was made by the increase in air and automobile cargo turnover .	0,70
our country is addressing the challenge of improving the competitiveness of education and science.	today , the country is solving the problems of increasing the competitiveness of the education and science systems .	0,70
separate rules to reduce the burden on the teacher with a ban on the assignment of duties that are not part of the professional function of the teacher, accountability, and the conduct of unreasonable inspections.
in agriculture, livestock production increased by 3.9%.
in agriculture, livestock production increased by 3.5%.
This year, more than a thousand children became winners and prize-winners of international competitions and olympiads.
its goal is to select more than 1000 gifted children, support their education and the development of talent.
in particular, to prevent discrimination of employees' rights on wages, to ensure safe working conditions.
accordingly, the higher the level of urbanization, the higher the income of the population.
however, a number of measures taken may have an impact on the further improvement of indicators, but they have not yet been taken into account:
December 06, 2019, 17:13
with the establishment of Christianity and Muslims, the "brutal style" gradually began to lose its original meaning, emanating from worship and understanding.
agreement on establishing fraternal relations between the city of nur-sultan and the city of ulan-batyr;
modernized methods of producing and transporting drinking water using digital technologies.
for monitoring - job creation map.
This year, the construction of 6 apartment buildings for 245 apartments was completed in the microdistrict.
Together with the National Bank of Kazakhstan, a mechanism is being developed to attract private investors in the development of rental housing, due to which it will additionally allow to build 10 thousand rental apartments and provide housing for 20 thousand families per year.
a multi-level system is running.
In addition, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance noted the meetings of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tokayev with political, expert and business circles in the framework of the UN General Assembly in New York.
In order to identify talents and expand the coverage of children from villages and small towns, the foundation of the first president of Kazakhstan has developed a new concept for supporting gifted children.
ahko plays an important role in providing business with foreign investment and achieving capital.
He was the consul general of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Germany, ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Malaysia.
Thus, as a result of the integration of the "Caspian Bank" in September of this year alone, compared with the level of last year, tax payments of individuals increased 2.5 times.
Guests and tourists will visit cultural sites and get acquainted with our history.
the program includes both second-tier banks and microfinance organizations.
this result is achieved thanks to modular blocks - finished rooms with a clean finish, that is, they are equipped with a single whole, as parts of the designer.
in the regional center, members of the working group got acquainted with the work of the regional ambulance station.
Speaking at the plenary session, the head of the Kazakh delegation informed the members of the committee about the protection of the historical and cultural heritage of the country, in particular the mausoleum of khoja ahmet yassaui.
they need to be used as much as possible, massively mobilize young people for a healthy lifestyle.
fixed tariff is the tariff at which the state undertakes to buy the produced energy from an investor who has built a renewable energy source. the fixed rate of renewable energy is the rate at which the state undertakes to buy all the generated energy from the investor who built the renewable energy source .
texts of decrees are published on the acorda website.
Also, the medical facility serves residents of one of the districts of the capital - the saryark district.
How many roads will be repaired before the end of the year, which roads will be paid and who will check their quality - with an interview with barmak
100-megawatt stations in the country were introduced into the Almaty region - near the Kapshagay, in the city of Saransk, Karaganda region and in the village of Burnoye, Zhambyl region.
Applications for additional grants are accepted from August 5 to 10.
the studies of Kazakh and foreign experts will also be carefully analyzed.
here they get acquainted with many historical monuments: the Karakhan mausoleum, genuine masterpieces of ancient architecture - the Babaji Khatun and Aishi Bibi mausoleum, the archaeological complex of the White Guards and antiquities.
urbanization will further increase gross domestic product by 0.52%.
The region implemented a number of projects for the construction of solar and wind power plants with a total capacity of 50.6 megawatts.
the program determines the volumes and instruments of investment, the procedure for obtaining an investment tax residence.
we have the potential to increase the volume of trade, which should be influenced by the formed free trade zone. we have great potential to increase trade , which will be facilitated by the creation of the free trade zone .
Improving the coordination of social housing and the transparency of these processes.
The Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan proposes within the framework of the State Program for the Development of Productive Employment and Mass Entrepreneurship for 2017-2021 to provide the Governor's Office of the region with a budget loan with a rate of 0.01%.
in the near future, an order of the Ministry of National Economy is expected in accordance with the reduction in export customs duties on light petroleum products.
such conditions can complicate harvesting, although they are favorable for grain ripening.
Kazakhstan, for its part, is ready to make every effort to complete the negotiations within the established time frame.
In total, more than 3,000 builders work on construction sites.
The forum is aimed at ensuring an effective dialogue between participants in the energy market, considering current trends and directions for the development of the energy system.
The purpose of the exhibition is to introduce the foreign audience to the rich historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan.
the share of cup in gin increased by 28.5% (b. Dalen)
The purpose of the exhibition is to familiarize a foreign viewer with the rich historical and cultural heritage of Kazakhstan.
As part of the monitoring of the execution of the instructions of the Head of State for the development of the city of Baikonur, Tokaev visited five 50-apartment buildings built under the Nұrly Zher program.
More than 6.5 thousand residential buildings were restored, 6.5 thousand families were repaired.
agriculture has seen steady growth.
In order to train highly qualified personnel, the Ministry is developing a plan for the development of the civil aviation academy.
according to him, fulfilling these promises requires important and coherent work in the center and regions, including the development of a number of bills and other regulatory legal acts.
Chairman of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan e. Dossaev noted that monthly inflation in May this year amounted to 0.6%.
In order to promote the technical equipment of the new school, the Foundation for the Development of Socially Significant Initiatives presented a green technology laboratory with a virtual scientific section for studying 3D models, which is represented by the chairman of the fund's board of trustees. Nazarbayeva and Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources of Kazakhstan M. Myrzagaliyev.
an invaluable find was called the "Kazakh Tutankhamun" and recognized as the "news of the century."
for the first time in several years, many comments had been taken into account. over the past few years , most of our comments have been taken into account for the first time .
Today there are about 30 thousand gifted children in the country, there are more than 100 specialized schools and educational centers.
a. Mom M. Myrzagaliev is a qualified specialist, an experienced leader.
Askar mom got acquainted with the work of a joint venture for the production of high-quality road bitumen "Caspi Bitumen."
the contract provides for the construction of a "national industrial petrochemical technology park" on the territory of the country for the production of dry compressed air and nitrogen and bringing it to a combined gas chemical complex.
the document was signed by the deputy prime ministers of the eurozone countries and the PRC, and on behalf of the European Union - the chairman of the board.
the bus station is built to optimize traffic flows in the regional center and improve the environmental situation.
Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy, training and attracting investors
3.7 billion tenge is available for procurement interventions on personal accounts and deposits.
Roman called on Jordanian warehousing airlines to cooperate with the Kazakh side, and also added that our country will analyze aspects of further effective cooperation.
child and maternal mortality are on the agenda. the issue of child and maternal mortality in the region today does not leave our agenda .
The head of government instructed to take appropriate measures for the timely and qualitative implementation of the measures provided for in the integrated plan, as well as to monitor the timely and effective use of funds.
because colleges teach non-sought-after specialties and poor quality of education.
for the effective implementation of the proposed measures, a draft republican road map has been developed.
this will effectively reduce the cost and time of building construction without compromising their quality, which will make housing affordable for most Kazakhstanis.
an emergency medical station, oncological and radiological centers, as well as an intensive care unit for newborns will operate on the territory of a single center, which will reduce infant mortality.
it is aimed at further simplifying the procedures for opening bank accounts, registering enterprises, including as VAT payers, as well as strengthening the protection of minority shareholders.
before the introduction of per capita funding 121 private schools, now they are 146.
The Eurasian Economic Commission was informed about the progress of work to eliminate exemptions, restrictions and barriers in the eurozone domestic market.
symbolic significance is the fact that today's summit takes place within the walls of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi, which is the global hub for sustainable development of the UN Academic Influence program.
for example, the idea of ​ ​ the further development of the treasure was voiced by the director of Rodina Agricultural Company LLP, the head of the Atameken profile committee.
waste that could be treated was removed in yellow containers, and untreated garbage was deposited in green boxes.
In addition, the Kazakh delegation visited the center of innovative medicine "avanta," which will stimulate and develop the application of new programs and approaches in the field of dentistry and aesthetic medicine.
In addition, during the opening ceremony of the Saryarkaavroprom plant in Kazakhstan, a new type of school bus was donated to the new school.
jewelry of a golden feather on the crown of an ancient field ruler became part of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a statue of a golden man was installed on Independence Square in Alma-Ata.
and, increasing the autonomy and responsibility of district, urban and rural levels of government in solving socio-economic problems of local importance.
In order to increase accessibility in the framework of car loans, about 3 thousand cars were financed last year.
improvement of the position influenced the introduction of electronic customs declaration, reduction of the rate of customs clearance fee and transfer from the stage of customs control registration to post-customs control.
the second stage is testing candidates.
Within the framework of the meeting, the oath-taking ceremony was held by the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Culture and Sports. Raimkulova, Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources of M. Myrzagaliyev, first included in the government in accordance with the constitutional law "On the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
2321 people were sent to youth practice.
The planned bills fully coincide with the national plan of measures to implement the message of President Tokayev and are aimed at improving legal relations in important areas for the population.
Kazakhtelecom together with JSC "Transtelecom" implements the project "provision of broadband Internet of rural settlements of the Republic of Kazakhstan using the technology of fibre-optic communication networks" under the loan agreement.
the number of organizers will decrease significantly.
for example, in Shymkent, the question of providing rental housing for newly working youth begins.
global renewable energy capacity has quadrupled over the past decade, from 414 gt to 1,650 gt, and global investment in this period will soon reach $2.6 trillion.
search for talented children and adolescents, their education and preparation for admission to universities
increasing access to the Internet in rural settlements, digital Kazakhstan. "
3,381 km of networks are worn out, so they need to be reconstructed.
Director General of the National Center for Biotechnology e. Specialists of the Ramankul center have developed a number of important research projects.
B. According to Nurymbetov, in order to improve labor legislation, a bill on labor issues has been developed and submitted to the Majilis of Parliament.
the young man had a complex heart operation, he still has surgery.
The main topic of discussion was the updating of the status of the self-employed population, ensuring the timely implementation of insurance premiums in the framework of awareness-raising and the introduction of compulsory social health insurance.
at the same time, the connection of rural settlements to the Internet will be carried out in accordance with the list of promising villages compiled by the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In order to support low-income families, new mechanisms for targeted social assistance have been introduced since April this year.
Prime Minister a. Mamin instructed to develop financing mechanisms within the framework of public-private partnership, taking into account international experience.
his opinion on this project was expressed by the Vice Minister of Agriculture of the Kurman River.
Akimats of the cities of Shymkent and Nur-Sultan and Aktobe region are in the leading places in terms of the amount of investments attracted within the signed contracts.
1,170 recommendations for improving the performance and efficiency of auditing facilities.
now the list of socially significant goods we have includes 19 goods, of which only 6 goods we depend on imports. now we have 19 items in the list of socially important goods , of which only six have import dependence .
The Kazakh side emphasized the need to strengthen work to preserve the ecosystem of the Caspian Sea.
By the end of this year, 87 renewable energy facilities with a capacity of 1042 MW will operate in Kazakhstan.
Currently, the Ministry has developed a bill amending the existing system of targeted social assistance.
aa. Birmanov noted that the introduction of new GOBMP packages is aimed primarily at increasing the availability of medical care for socially vulnerable segments of the population.
More than 7 thousand builders work in 17 sectors.
It is planned to implement 1,641 projects in 250 villages for the total allocated funds.
the main goal of providing this housing is to give working youth the opportunity to save money on obtaining individual housing. the main purpose of issuing this housing is to support working youth in order to give them the opportunity to save up for their own housing .
jewelry of a golden feather on the crown of an ancient field ruler became part of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a statue of a golden man was installed on Independence Square in Alma-Ata.
a state program for the development of education and science until 2025 will be developed, aimed at fully covering children with high-quality preschool education, completing the transfer of secondary education to updated content, phased transition to 12-year education, the introduction of trilingualism, and strengthening the contribution of science to the development of the country.
According to the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the growth rate of income for 10 months of the current year is higher than for the same period of 2018.
The exhibitions were held with great success in the museums of Belarus, Russia, Azerbaijan, China, Poland and South Korea, Uzbekistan, Malaysia and Turkey.
O. In turn, he noted the significant contribution of Kazakhstan to the activities of UNESCO and expressed confidence that the new center will contribute to the promotion of intercultural dialogue at the regional and world levels.
Thanks to the strategic decisions of the head of state in the transport and logistics sector, Kazakhstan has become a regional logistics hub and a state with developed transit potential.
as a result, efficiency has increased.
the first stage is reception of documents of the above participants.
you have every opportunity.
jewelry of a golden feather on the crown of an ancient field ruler became part of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a statue of a golden man was installed on Independence Square in Alma-Ata.
He also noted that special attention should be paid to the quality of vocational education, it is necessary to increase its level so that companies have a demand for young specialists.
As a result, cereal production is expected to decline compared to last year.
The program for the first time implemented new mechanisms for the construction of rental housing for large families and working youth, preferential mortgages for low-income families, and the provision of subsidies to private developers.
these measures will increase the level of public confidence in the state, as well as ensure the effectiveness of communications.
from here the windows are quickly delivered to the construction sites.
The event was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister Kassymbek Kassymbek and akim of the city nur-sultan a. Kulginov.
Business conditions will dramatically improve.
the fourth task provides for the overhaul and reconstruction of the housing stock.
the fund faces great challenges.
This year, on November 4-5, with the participation of the head of state, a number of built facilities were opened in Turkestan.
For 40 large families, as well as for young specialists, the plant provides for the possibility of providing free housing.
these strategic programmes are not being successfully implemented. now these strategic programs are carried out formally .
currently, there is an increase in remote and part-time forms of employment, such as freelance, crowdworking, etc.
to unlock the potential of each child, find out where they can learn, why they are more inclined.
currently, the volume of food products available and in responsible storage in the republic is 29.8 thousand tons.
Prime Minister a. Mom instructed to take special control over the implementation of the project "aul - cradle of the country" and focus on solving and improving issues around cities of republican importance.
Since the beginning of the year, there has been a positive trend in the field of iron ore mining.
The program "Business Roadmap - 2025" provides target indicators.
The Head of Government instructed the government agencies to determine the mechanisms of using funds allocated to reduce the debt burden of citizens, write off fines and penalties for savings on tax-free consumer loans of citizens within a week.
aa. According to Togzhanov, to date, 112,958 collective agreements have been concluded, which is 43.3% of the number of existing enterprises and organizations.
these amendments provide for the introduction of the "one window" principle in the construction industry, optimization of contract execution issues, and the implementation of tax reforms.
loan term - 20 years.
to move towards a green economy and promote sustainable growth.
at the opening ceremony of the forum, the ascar specialist noted that Kazakhstan increases the efficiency and productivity of traditional energy sources, as well as systematically strengthens its position as a regional leader in the field of renewable energy sources.
The Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, under the leadership of the First Vice-Minister of Kairbek Rostenbayev, has been monitoring and monitoring the reconstruction of the Arysk city since the first days after the emergency.
The pig breeding program is aimed at developing pork exports to the Chinese market.
It is one of the 20 leading manufacturers of kamaz heavy trucks in the world and ranks 16th in terms of production of heavy trucks with a total weight of more than 16 tons.
The construction of Zheo-3 will allow in the coming years to cover the growing demand for heat in the western part of the capital, as well as significantly increase the capacity of a private producer and the heat source of the fuel and energy complex in the city of Nur-Sultan.
So, the director of interaction with the state bodies of hill corruption LLP addressed the reception of the party to the wife of the mothers with a question regarding the ban on the transportation of light oil products from the country by road, which is unacceptable to fulfill obligations under export contracts for LLP.
July 1 this year Kazavtodor JSC announced the competition, on October 28 of this year competitive bids will be opened.
The Head of the Cabinet instructed the Ministry of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan to ensure the development of a single online platform as soon as possible.
The World Summit of Oncology Leaders (wcls) is attended by 350 delegates from more than 70 countries.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population on sectoral justifications of qualifications and the results of the development of professional standards on the development of educational programs and model curricula - Minister of Education and Science. Aimagambetov, Deputy Chairman of the Atameken NPP on the approval of professional standards. Ordabayev, Executive Director of the Association of Mining and Metallurgical Enterprises on the Introduction of Educational Programs in the Specific Production of Joydovites and Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Group with. Shahazhanov, Director of the Khromtau Mining and Technical College on the Introduction of Professional Standards in Organizations of Vocational Education. Mold, Head of the Education of BLL" btc-DIGITAL "on the METHODOLOGY.
Within implementation of the program of "Nrla zher", first of all, rent housing is provided to large families.
on the territory of the new industrial zone of Kostanay, the first stage of construction was completed, the production of powerful tractors "Belarus" and "Kirovets" was launched.
then there will be a result.
during the inspection of the object, head of the laboratory of pillar cells. Zholdybayev, head of the laboratory of genetic engineering of plants w. Manabayev, Head of the Laboratory of Human Genetics M. Zhabagin introduced the results of research in the field of human genomics, genetics and pathogens, pet genetics, as well as a new branch of science - genomic editing.
it is proposed to limit:
By September 1 of this year, all necessary regulations will be brought into line with the new approaches to the package of guaranteed free medical care and medical care in the system of compulsory social health insurance.
We will try to complete the repair before September next year, "B. Maken assured.
a. Mom's. visit to the museum and memorial of the national writer of Kazakhstan.
in this regard, the approaches of state support for the agro-industrial complex were revised, taking into account the issues of import inflation in the import of food products.
in Almaty and Kyzylorda regions there was a high percentage of drinking water supply to the village.
During the meeting, issues of attracting foreign investment and modern innovative technologies were discussed.
14 domestic air routes are subsidized.
In total, more than 130 companies with the participation of French capital operate in Kazakhstan.
The masterpieces of ancient and medieval art of Kazakhstan presented at the exhibition are only a small part of the works of the former nameless masters demonstrating the uniqueness of the heritage of Eurasian steppe culture.
preferential lending is provided to large families for housing.
As part of the implementation of the agreement, it is planned to create a plant for the production of special equipment, belts, cast iron ingots.
taking into account the existing passenger traffic, it is possible to reduce part of the rolling stock from 19 to 12 units.
Head of Crop Production, Nakhodka-Agro LLP, Aidarbek Khojanazarov.
The Deputy Prime Minister supported this initiative and instructed the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Ministry of Culture and Sports, to consider organizing children's Paralympic games at the republican level.
an invaluable find was called the "Kazakh Tutankhamun" and recognized as the "news of the century."
an invaluable find was called the "Kazakh Tutankhamun" and recognized as the "news of the century."
In addition, it is planned to connect 885 rural settlements with a population of more than 50 people to the Internet in the future.
According to the results of the selection, the programs are drawn up independently taking into account the proposals of experts.
what does the federation of trade unions offer?
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan asar mom "chevron" (chevron) discussed with the chairman of the board of directors m.
In addition, the location of the city of Shymkent near Turkestan and Tashkent will give a real impetus and synergistic effect to the development of tourist infrastructure and the creation of new jobs.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, an archaeological sensation occurred in the suburbs of Almaty, during which a well-known archaeologist discovered the remains of a "golden man" - the Saki tsar, who later became a symbol of Kazakhstan.
Improving the availability and quality of public health care, including the financing of two packages.
The Prime Minister instructed to create a working group within a week to develop a specific package of measures for a short and medium period to stabilize prices for socially significant goods.
because college management does not follow who and how they teach.
at the same time, "taraz" acts as a white reliable agent and the interest rate for the final borrower is 2.5%.
a special role in the development of the region's economy is assigned to the "economy of simple things."
akims of all regions are instructed to strictly observe all regulatory procedures, monitor recipients of targeted social assistance.
for this period, participants with a high score submitted by the expert commission are allowed.
the head of the Shymkent branch of the Future Fellows Association spoke about the work of the Shymkent - Loyalty Square project office.
firstly, a large number of distributors and other inefficient intermediaries with various trade margins on the food market, failure to comply with the terms of supply, and lack of storage channels.
for this, a single republican automated waiting base is created.
During a visit to the building of the Alatau media center, the head of state examined working rooms for representatives of regional gardens.
He also noted that the president of the country declared the next year the year of volunteers.
for Kazakh products, access to the Chinese market is important not only for increasing trade turnover, but also for attracting Chinese investments in the processing of agricultural products in Kazakhstan.
we have a good experience, but we cannot hide shortcomings.
in addition, the passport for a poultry farm with eggs was canceled.
children from schools of villages and small towns.
Memorandum of cooperation between the Kazakh National Agrarian University and the University "Vakheningen" on the training of Kazakh agrarians.
The Head of the Government congratulated on the opening ceremony of traffic on the international highway "Beineu-Akzhigit - the border of the Republic of Uzbekistan," noting that this event will give impetus to the development of transport infrastructure in Central Asia, increase in trade and the implementation of transit potential.
his clothes are treated with valuable stones, that is, gold.
The head of government visited the industrial zone of the kostanay, where he took part in the opening ceremony of the plant for the production of a tractor of increased capacity "Kirovets" on the basis of the Kostanay tractor plant.
today we are launching the production of the legendary Kirovets tractor.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan a. Mamin got acquainted with new methods of training using interactive equipment.
Until 2023, the airline should receive about 10 aircraft.
In addition, during the working trip, the head of government was presented plans to build a plant for the production of methanol and olefin in the aea zone "Aktau seaport" with an investment of more than $1.8 billion.
To improve the system of support for people with disabilities, from July 1 in the city of Aktobe, a social services portal was introduced in pilot mode, in which from August those in need will receive technical rehabilitation facilities directly from the supplier.
The Ministry, together with the central and local executive bodies, is constantly preparing for the regular holding of the upcoming heating season. the ministry , together with central and local executive bodies , is constantly working on preparing a stable passage for the upcoming heating season .
That is why it was decided to implement a pilot project in Zhambyl region.
participants discussed the development of public space, the role of green territories in the life of the modern metropolis and the impact of parks on the urban environment.
wind and dust storms are expected to increase throughout the period.
it provides for the support of venture funds through co-financing with the state.
clarification of the expenditure part of the budget was carried out in three areas.
Here berdybek saparbayev held a meeting on compulsory social health insurance.
issues of construction and reconstruction of sewage treatment facilities are also being resolved.
a. smailov noted that this will determine an objective picture of local content in public procurement and simplify monitoring.
c. Lobster noted that there are currently a number of problems in the sector that hinder the development of the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan.
The head of government noted that the creation of permanent jobs remains the main priority of the work of akims and sectoral ministries.
A regular meeting of the CIS Economic Council in a narrow composition was also held, where the participants discussed the preparation of a draft agreement on free trade in services, as well as exchanged views on topical issues of economic cooperation in the union of independent states.
According to the Minister of Education and Science, the bill provides for the introduction of non-profit organizations for the placement of orphans and children left without parental care; persons from terrorist zones, as well as persons under the influence of extremist religious ideology.
During this time, repair work was never carried out in the hospital.
As of September 1 of this year, in 2019, 2,360 people received microcredit from the total number of graduates, 5,431 people received grants.
Taking into account the positive experience of Uzbekistan in the development of the textile industry, the 18th meeting of the joint intergovernmental commission on cooperation between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, held on June 22 this year, signed an agreement on the joint launch of the textile cluster in the city of Shymkent, "said A. Mamin.
if you have one child - 1 point, for each subsequent child - 2 points.
In addition, the commission considered measures to prevent citizens from having excessive debt to financial organizations, improving mechanisms for providing state targeted social assistance, ongoing work to improve the pension system and other issues.
Government support measures: investment subsidies and interest subsidies.
Deputy Prime Minister visited the orthoprot rehabilitation center for children with disabilities, created as part of a public-private partnership this year.
to bring it into line with the new law "On Currency Regulation and Currency Control."
By the end of 2022, the Internet should be available in more than 5 thousand rural settlements, which is 97%.
no appeal and complaints of citizens should remain without consideration or response, "Saparbayev emphasized.
the Prime Minister instructed to revise the existing algorithm for monitoring wage arrears, as well as tighten the legislation on timely payment of wages.
It is planned that in 2019, recipients of loans will open 15 thousand business entities.
the agenda of the regular meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council, which is scheduled to be held on October 25 this year in Moscow, was approved.
construction and commissioning of a large diamond ring road (huaage) "
at the same time, special attention will be paid to the compact construction of the city and the use of the experience of investors working according to international standards of housing construction.
Currently, 5g test tests are being conducted in the cities of nur-sultan and Almaty, which are planned to be held in October this year in Shymkent.
According to him, the country has the only educational institution - the Academy of Civil Aviation, within the walls of which more than 400 specialists are trained annually.
financing of facilities.
Based on the results of the interview, the expert commission, by open voting, draws up a list of candidates proposed for admission to the reserve, and sends it for consideration to the national commission.
In the future, it is planned to increase capacity to 5,000 units of equipment per year and open more than 400 jobs.
Working visit of the Prime Minister a. Mother in the city of Shymkent and Turkestan region
In order to prevent the shortage of railway tickets, the digitalization of ticket sales is being carried out, the norm governing the procedure for selling tickets has been introduced, a plan has been developed to improve the system of passenger transportation by rail, "said Kassymbek.
more than 400 employees.
in turn, Minister of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan B. Sultanov spoke about measures to prevent rising prices for socially important food products.
Increased availability of funding.
- Akims, especially socially important ones, to take concrete measures for sustainable maintenance of food prices.
The forum was attended by more than 200 representatives of the business community of the two countries.
The Head of Government instructed the Atameken government and the Ministry of Finance to hold additional seminars with akimats for proper work on public procurement.
in the East Kazakhstan region, askar mom got acquainted with the progress of the project on the construction of the highway "with growth - taldykorgan."
It will present a list of groups of educational programs, the number of grants allocated this year, the results of the competition last year.
As part of the festival, a ceremony was held to award women entrepreneurs supporting national art.
The Prime Minister praised the results of the pilot project on the introduction of mams, noting that other regions should take into account this experience of the Karaganda region.
There are 2200 enterprises in Kazakhstan with participation of Turkish capital in various industries.
By the end of this year, the fund plans to double the transport capacity of the low-cost airline and the fleet of aircraft, which will open additional sales of more than 100 thousand tickets at minimum rates, "K. Alpysbayev said.
proof of this - from November 1 of the current year, the address certificate was canceled.
In turn, Berdybek Saparbayev noted that on behalf of the country's leadership, the government is taking measures to reduce the incidence of cancer.
Mr. Abdykalikova noted that the forum has become a system platform for the development of backbone ideas and projects for the development of human capital.
since the beginning of the year, 12.7 thousand case furniture have been produced.
from. According to Barmakov, Kazakhstan has more local roads than republican ones.
The working group headed by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev paid a working visit to Turkestan region.
"We must do a lot of work to fulfill the instructions of the President of the Cassic-generous Tokai on the water supply of cities and villages, issued during working trips to the regions."
Following the talks, the Ministers of Agriculture of the two countries with the participation of the heads of government signed a roadmap to intensify cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the medium term in the field of agriculture.
This card stores the permissions and entries to the gyms according to personal analysis.
these investments will create jobs, pay taxes and produce green energy.
In addition, personnel in the field of tourism will study at several universities.
The construction of an additional 4,698 individual residential buildings and multi-storey residential facilities is ongoing.
In order to simplify the payment of local taxes, the database of state bodies was integrated with the portal of the electronic government "egov" and Caspian Bank JSC.
Short-term training should be based on guaranteed employment. short-term training should be based on guaranteed employment .
A. Sospanova noted Almaty, Zhambyl and Karaganda regions as champions in the introduction of renewable energy sources.
here we hold the position of consortium with participation of kazakhtelecom and group of companies transtelecom.
the Republican Appeals Commission and the Appeals Commission at each point of the championship.
in addition, the calculation of transfers of a general nature will take into account the characteristics of the regions.
subsidies per unit of production are cost-effective in boosting production, and priority should be given to supporting industrial and technological production.
On amendments and additions to certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on labour issues "the draft law, which provides for measures to convert labor contracts into electronic format, establish the duties and responsibilities of employers for creating decent working conditions and living conditions for workers, expand visiting conditions within a group of one company, introduce a system of labor protection management based on assessment and management of professional challenges in enterprises, and others.
Today, in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to increase the export potential, the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Gulmira Isaev met with the Deputy Minister of the Main Customs Administration of the Chinese People's Republic wang ling jun.
akhko manager Kelimbetov presented the main results of the center and reported on the prospects for further development.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of RK, within the program of "Nrla zher", funds for acquisition and construction of housing for large families are provided.
introduction of an electronic trading platform in the agro-industrial complex, a system of labeling and supervision of products in livestock and crop production, the creation of digital farms, digital projects for automation of public services.
Position of the Federation of Trade Unions:
As a result of inspections, violations of the legislation on public procurement in 13,593 procedures worth 261 billion tenge were revealed.
As part of the visit, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan inspected the equipment of the workshop for the production of injectable drugs and infusion solutions, and also evaluated the work of the digital engineering and educational center launched as part of the project "model digital factories."
at the Enki brick production enterprise, launched as part of the industrialization map, the head of government of the Republic of Kazakhstan considered the automated process of technological production and the types of products produced.
the priority direction in the field of mass sports is to increase the systemic physical culture and sports of the country's population.
This expedition was dedicated to the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state. It should be noted that Nazarbayev's article "Seven Features of the Great Steppe" and the program "Modernization of Public Consciousness" make a significant contribution to the full realization of the tasks of using the tourist potential of cultural and geographical objects of Kazakhstan.
the money received from the toll road is fully allocated to the provision of these roads. the money that comes from tolls goes entirely to the maintenance of these roads .
Military Asylum Program
an invaluable find was called the "Kazakh Tutankhamun" and recognized as the "news of the century."
such maslikhats were created in some cities, including Shymkent.
5.5 million tons of grain were densified with an average yield of 11.5 c/ha.
of them, fines and penalties of 4.4 billion tenge were written off.
The head of the Uzbek government a. Aripov noted the importance of the first interregional forum and the Central Asian economic forum, which will allow establishing direct contacts between the business structures of the two countries.
In turn, Kazagro holding will provide the necessary credit resources.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev set the task to ensure full readiness for the transition to compulsory social health insurance. elbasy nursultan nazarbayev set the task to ensure complete readiness for the introduction of the insurance .
Today, more than 20 thousand Kazakhstanis are engaged in athletics, of which 11 thousand are studying in sports schools for children and adolescents, more than 600 are engaged in professional sports.
on the wage arrears of enterprises and work on regulating the labor market of nurymbets, chairman of the federation of trade unions e. Togzhanov, akim of Atyrau region nogayev, akim of Aktobe region about. Orazalin, deputy prime minister B. Saparbayev reported.
this procedure is simplified as much as possible.
The Ministry of Agriculture, together with Kazagro holding and akimats of the regions, was instructed to take measures to increase the volume of dairy livestock, develop domestic poultry farming, and develop the export of halal products.
In his speech, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that the country's leadership provides significant support for the development of the social sphere.
changes will also affect groups of commodity-special and investment susbids.
He noted that the document was developed in accordance with the requirements of UNESCO and takes into account the high international status of the mausoleum.
yesterday a shock wave was overturned on the roof of the house. yesterday they removed the slate - a beam in the middle broke from the shock wave .
As part of the pilot, the availability of advisory and diagnostic services in the Karaganda region has significantly increased. as part of a pilot in the karaganda region , the availability of consultative and diagnostic services has significantly increased .
affordable housing
Investments made it possible to ensure uninterrupted supply of water to consumers, as well as to completely clean wastewater in accordance with environmental and sanitary requirements. the investment made it possible to ensure uninterrupted supply of water to consumers , as well as completely purify wastewater in accordance with environmental and sanitary requirements .
The parties noted the importance of ensuring favourable working conditions in all projects.
today we have expanded our renewable energy portfolio to 3,000 megawatts.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan during the visit to the new school visited the Abaitanu office and museum, which opened on the occasion of the 175th anniversary of the great brother.
economic conditions have also been created to increase the production of fruits and vegetables by subsidizing the amount of remuneration, investment subsidies for sprinklers and irrigation systems.
according to him, it is necessary to monitor the fulfillment of these conditions.
large business is single, there are not many cases when there are large investments.
It is planned that by the end of this year data will be exchanged online.
at the same time, prices for jet fuel in the domestic market of Kazakhstan indicate the market and weighted price of kerosene produced in Russia.
Consideration of the legislative establishment of the obligation to conclude collective agreements in all organizations and enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership.
According to the managing director of the Ural transformer plant akjol sauranbaev, the plant employs more than 300 people in three shifts.
The solemn opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Khysni Ismaili, Deputy Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Diamond Nurazhan, Director of the National Archaeological Museum of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Goran sled.
The government was instructed to develop a support card for gifted children, to analyze the situation with the training of sought-after specialists.
Deputy Prime Minister at the opening of the meeting took part in a meeting with the head of state. drew attention to the words of Nazarbayev.
the coast of the Caspian Sea is one of the top ten priority tourist territories of Kazakhstan in accordance with the developed state tourism development program.
Governor of Karaganda region noted that as part of the piloting of the victory in the Kassym region, a lot of work has been done on digital infrastructure.
The work of the Kazakh-Swiss Business Council and the intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation contributes to the strengthening of economic partnership.
Any population service center should be aimed at the comprehensive provision of the entire range of accessible services through the integration of information systems and automation of business processes, "said A. Mamin, instructing the ministries of digital development and internal affairs to work out all the existing experience of digital and migration service centers for the population.
During the visit, the Deputy Prime Minister met with representatives of the public in the region, medical workers, where issues of developing the health system and education, supporting large and low-income families, as well as supporting business initiatives to increase employment were raised.
the index helps to identify the challenges and opportunities of countries in the development of trade logistics.
planned criteria for state support
On Monday, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan met with the President of Tajikistan, enamel rahmon.
in addition, the work of precinct commissions should be strengthened.
The Deputy Prime Minister also got acquainted with the experience of the charitable foundation "Children of Armenia" (coaf).
The Head of Government noted that the Roadmap for the development of mechanical engineering for 2019-2024 adopted in July this year provides for a set of systemic support measures, including tax preferences, financial and raw materials support, and provision of qualified specialists.
This was told by the deputy chairman of "kazakh tourism" kairat saduakas.
domestic producers are given the opportunity to place their goods at all trading facilities.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew special attention to the process of restoration of socially significant objects and residential buildings of the Arysian city, as well as measures taken for the development of Turkestan.
During the presentation of the new mayor of the metropolis, Askar Bakytzhan sagintayev noted the great experience of working in senior positions.
the new center uses advanced technologies for detecting and treating malignancies, as well as laser, radiation and cell-immune therapy using the experience of previously created cardiological and neurosurgical clusters.
in the field of health, projects were implemented to create a tomotherapy center and a multidisciplinary hospital in the city of nur-sultan, an ophthalmic center in Aktobe, the opening of hemodialysis centers, a hemocorrection center, and the provision of clinical and diagnostic services.
this will allow the graduate to consciously choose his future profession.
by the end of this year, a legislative framework will be developed to exempt micro and small businesses from paying taxes from their main activities for a period of three years.
food production increased by 1.2%, beverage production increased by 18.9%.
this concept provides for the reduction of crimes and suicides among children.
customs check, counter tax check, checks carried out within the framework of the criminal case and related to its activities at the request of the taxpayer.
including the elimination of identified shortcomings in a medical institution.
In addition, the Minister of Education and Science noted that this year a number of measures have been taken to improve the world.
Unfortunately, cases of crime and violence were developing among young people, including minors. unfortunately , cases of crime and violence among young people , including minors , have become more frequent .
It is nice that in terms of the number of points we occupy an equal position with Canada and Ireland, which scored 79.6 points.
this is the international project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
the territory fixed by this akimat is considered the largest, but the main blow of the wave fell on a small area.
in the service sector, growth was 4.4%.
The head of state visited the school of shizki.
Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan K. Bozumbayev, Chairman of the Board of Kazakhstan Electric Grid Management Company "kegoc" on interaction with the renewable energy market b. Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan, akim of Zhambyl region a. Myrzakhmetov and akim of East Kazakhstan region m. akhmetov.
this will make it possible to form a digital map of Kazakhstan, simplify the procedure for obtaining services by the population in the field of land relations and architecture, automate control and monitoring of land use.
their main lesson in an interview with the deputy prime minister is the desire for knowledge, the prevention of provocations, the study of the fundamentals of business and the transformation of ideas into reality.
According to him, first of all it is necessary to understand that the airline ticket market is not regulated, this is dynamic.
everything is in your hands!
this is a memorandum in the field of plant quarantine and a protocol on requirements for the export of pork from Kazakhstan to China.
the level of satisfaction of the population as a result of sociological research was 85.7%.
Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev and akim of nur-sultan city visited Paralympic training center in the capital.
negotiations were held with potential investors, second-level banks of Kazakhstan, the terms of placement of bonds and coupon rates were announced.
if adopted, this industry will be regulated independently, since those who do not have a license will not allow collecting scrap metal, which means they will work together with government agencies.
ongoing work is underway to form a full-fledged competitive tariff and automated digital activities.
According to the parties, special attention in this direction is paid to the akhko exchange.
On December 20 of this year, the agenda of the next meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in St. Petersburg was approved.
international experience in the regulation of pedagogical activities was taken into account in the preparation of bills.
therefore, during the working trip, special attention was paid to the development of the engineering industry.
The independent jury, which includes authoritative experts, public figures, representatives of state structures, gardening and business, scientists, cultural and art figures, selected more than 620 best works from the works received.
also a. Mamin drew the attention of the Ministry of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry to the quality of communications and the Internet, especially in social facilities.
The objectives of the centre are to conduct research on the history and experience of intercultural integration in Central Asia and other regions, prepare publications, organize conferences and conduct educational activities.
strong primary health care provides high-quality prevention, early detection and effective treatment of many diseases, including cancer, "the appeal says.
work is also under way to ensure the stability of payments.
for its objectivity, it is planned to video the process of writing essays to applicants.
in addition, Askar Mama visited the Taneko oil refinery, which is part of the Tatneft group of companies.
through this portal, persons with disabilities can choose their own services and technical means of rehabilitation. saparbayev.
After listening to the information provided, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the management of the fund solved systemic issues and achieved positive dynamics of production indicators and indicators.
Chairman of the Road Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development spoke in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке about the ongoing work on the introduction of a toll collection system on a number of roads of national importance.
through the introduction of new mechanisms, complex tasks are solved from increasing production and solving social issues to increasing the share of necessary funds. through the introduction of mechanisms , a complex of tasks is being solved - from increasing production volumes and solving social problems to increasing the share of required reserves .
As part of the working trip to Semey, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama held a meeting with the city asset on the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan of Socio-Economic Development of Semey for 2020-2025, as well as on preparations for the celebration of the 175th anniversary of the village.
this is an increase in length of service due to an increase in the average age.
Currently, broadband Internet is available in 117 cities and 3,324 rural settlements. at present , the country has broadband access services in 117 cities and 3324 rural settlements .
preschool children will be provided with food, hygiene and educational services.
coal and lignite production amounted to 97.3%.
it is planned to prepare 5,936 objects, of which 5,921 objects or 99.7% are prepared.
all uncertainties and issues not regulated by the current legislation are explained in favor of the enterprise subject.
Ministers and akims are personally responsible for the implementation of indicators on the Kazakh content and relevant legislation. ministers and akims are personally responsible for the implementation of indicators on kazakhstan content and relevant legislation .
now in all sports in the national teams there are doctors, masseurs, nutritionists and other specialists who accompany the teams at training camps and competitions.
the Astana Declaration called on world leaders to strengthen the role of bmsk in achieving universal health coverage and preserving human health.
Improved employment and tax revenue requirements for programme participants.
about 200 digital projects are being implemented in the mining and metallurgical complex and the manufacturing industry, including 12 model digital factories.
Within the framework of ahco, a hub of financial technologies has been created, which will ensure the creation of high-quality infrastructure for the unification of all regional participants in the financial technology market.
business activity in the real sector of the economy was accompanied by growth in the services sector.
Today, legislation defines 8 socially vulnerable categories of citizens to receive separate medical services, including children, pregnant women, mothers with many children, pensioners and others.
From the beginning of the initiative, 5,149 places were put into operation and by the end of the year another 4,050 places in dormitories will be commissioned. from the start of the initiative , 5,149 beds were put into operation , and by the end of the year another 4,050 beds in hostels are planned to be commissioned .
implementation of joint projects in the field of industrialization, including mechanical engineering, was considered.
the head of the national bank noted that in order to intensify the lending process from the government, it is important to take measures to accelerate the restoration of insufficient capital or negative enterprises.
After listening to all the appeals and proposals of the citizens who applied, Berdybek Saparbayev gave explanations and instructed the relevant state bodies to assist in resolving issues within the framework of the legislation.
The head of the EU representative office in Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the active efforts of the Government of Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate will give an additional impetus to the development of trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the countries of the European Union.
As of July 17, restoration work on 1360 houses was completed in the city of Arys.
I am sure that today's meeting of the coordinating council will be the beginning of the qualitative development of cooperation between the regions and ahko, "said A. Mamin.
The Government therefore planned to amend the legislation accordingly.
automation of the main equipment and installation of the electrical part is carried out.
enhancing the role of youth in the development of the country, which should be the driving force for progress.
Kazakh State Academy of Architecture and Construction with a degree in architect-designer and l. n. graduated from Gumilev Eurasian National University with a degree in public and local administration.
Systematically reduce administrative and other inefficient costs.
As of August 19, the main restoration work in 7,034 residential buildings was completed in the Arysian city.
work will also continue to reduce air fuel prices, taking into account the completed modernization of Kazakhstan oil refineries.
The head of government instructed to make proposals to increase funding for the "village-cradle of the country" project, consolidate by year and revise the list of support and satellite rural settlements with the necessary amounts of funding, as well as prepare an updated "village-cradle of the country" project for 2020-2026 by the end of this year.
The meeting considered the main indicators of the holding's activity in terms of achieving financial results, attracting funds in capital markets, supporting entrepreneurship, improving the availability of housing, and developing client-oriented practices.
The only witness to dynamic development is an increase in the number of universities to 131, in which more than 540 thousand students study.
The Director-General of WTO, Roberto Azevedo, congratulated Kazakhstan on its election to the chairmanship of the XII Ministerial Conference and reaffirmed his readiness for close cooperation in preparation for the global event in the field of international trade held by our country.
The Deputy Prime Minister instructed the responsible state bodies to fully provide the medical center with medicines necessary for the treatment of patients.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan A. Mamin noted that in order to further increase the efficiency of budget planning and ensure full implementation, a number of reforms are being prepared, which will be introduced by the end of this year.
In order to simplify business procedures in Kazakhstan and improve the investment climate, more than 50 legislative acts have been amended.
the project provides not only for solving housing problems, but also providing the population with high-quality drinking water, modernizing the infrastructure of housing and communal services, and repairing the housing stock.
however, the decorative images of animals devoid of the original magical meaning remained in use in jewelry, miniature books, wooden, stone and bone dialects, architecture, in a more assembled form, taking the form of stylized ornamental, jewelry elements.
For 2.5 thousand objects of individual housing construction and apartment buildings, builders carry out redecorating.
in addition, the parties discussed cooperation in the field of air relations.
industrial production in January-May this year amounted to 284.1 billion tenge.
In order to intensify cooperation in this area, a plan of joint activities for 2019-2021 between the Eurasian Economic Commission and the Astana International Financial Center was signed within the framework of a memorandum of cooperation between the Yeek and Akhko.
Kazakhstan's achievements in the field of aviation safety were marked on September 24 this year with an award of the icao council.
their implementation will be heard at the meetings of the project office of the Government.
today's conference can be called one of the important events in the run-up to the jubilees of these great festivals.
for example, lack of centralized procurement and sales, feed base, necessary equipment and technologies, lack of funds.
M. Wirth informed the company "chevron" and noted the performance of the company's projects in Kazakhstan.
regional akimats should ensure control over the completion of all planned repairs on energy resources within the established time frame and fully pay off the existing debt of energy enterprises, "concluded M. Dosmukhambetov.
the decline was due to a reduction in coal production at coal mining enterprises. the indicator fell due to a decrease in coal production at major coal mining enterprises .
no request, no complaint of citizens should remain unanswered, "said Berdybek Saparbayev
barriers are reduced and the list of permits is reduced.
In 2020-2022, a network of centers for supporting children in difficult life situations will develop.
perhaps, thanks to such projects, many schoolchildren will be interested in energy, focus on engineering, become good electric power engineers, and then continue their life paths at these stations.
The purpose of the festival is to popularize national art, demonstrate the world competitiveness of crafts, the development of Kazakhstan crafts.
because each enterprise created in this region will register the enterprise here, since a land plot will be allocated and the project will be implemented.
35 new large investment projects worth more than 1 trillion tenge are being implemented in the region, 17 of them with foreign participation.
Last year, after signing a decree on the transfer of the regional center, we began large-scale construction. last year , having signed a decree on the transfer of the regional center , we started a large-scale construction project .
at the same time, shipment is controlled around the clock and monitoring is carried out.
failed tenders, unscrupulous contractors and financing plans.
Askar mom b. familiarized the Atamkul team with the great experience and competence of the appointed minister.
investments in fixed assets increased by 9.7%.
The Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan continues to implement the system of control over goods through the development and integration of a set of information systems.
the director of the center of Chinghis temirkhans spoke about the new information system launched in November this year.
During the discussion, topical issues of the development of the industry, issues of regulating labor relations, implementing initiatives to increase income levels, increasing the share of Kazakh content in personnel by introducing new approaches to the training of specialists were considered.
since then, we have secured the toughest regime.
environmental degradation, poor lifestyles, poor nutrition have led to an increase in chronic diseases, including cancer.
however, an examination of the tender documentation is currently underway.
In order to get acquainted with the work carried out in the region to increase the volume of industrial production, Askar Mama visited the export-oriented Shymkent Temir enterprise in the territory of the South industrial zone, launched as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
Askar Mama Aksenov drew the attention of business representatives to the importance of further deepening cooperation in the implementation of the largest public-private partnership project in Kazakhstan - the construction of a large Almaty ring road, which will not only increase the transit potential of Kazakhstan, but will also contribute to improving the environmental situation in Almaty and Almaty region.
The need to continue enhanced work on the timely conduct of competitive procedures for the implementation of the national budget was noted.
we believe that the products we have will be different from others, "said K. Sadvakasov.
in general, the forum will give an additional impetus to the development of new qualitative relations in the field of tourism, as well as will further deepen mutually beneficial cooperation in a wide range of trade and economic relations between Russia and Kazakhstan.
now there are more than 31,700 people in this line.
So, one of the features of calculating transfers is the incentive of local executive bodies to develop small and medium-sized businesses.
Within the framework of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, an agreement was signed on the exchange of information on goods and vehicles transported through the customs borders of the Eurasian Economic Union and the People's Republic of China.
jewelry of a golden feather on the crown of an ancient field ruler became part of the coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and a statue of a golden man was installed on Independence Square in Alma-Ata.
To deliver 25,637 children to school, 918 vehicles are used.
this is an international holiday designed to draw the attention of mankind to the problem of preserving the living environment of the earth's fauna.
then the Deputy Prime Minister visited the Writers' Union of Azerbaijan, where he met with prominent representatives of the country's intelligentsia.
In the course of familiarization with the work of the rehabilitation center "life in" and the clinic "miras," Berdybek Saparbayev got acquainted with the introduction of the digitalization system, the quality of medical services, as well as the level of financial support for the clinic's employees.
if there is public agreement, there will be a positive outcome, well-being and prosperity. when there is public agreement , there will be a positive result , and well-being , and prosperity .
B. According to Sultanov, in order to contain prices for socially significant food products and gradually eliminate the causes of their growth by the Ministry of Trade and Integration, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and local executive bodies.
In general, preparations are underway for the heating season. the preparations for the heating season is underway .
We have a permanent partnership with Switzerland. we have a stable partnership with switzerland .
the tax residency program is approved by the ahko act, but is necessarily approved by authorized state bodies.
In addition, following his visit to Turkestan, the head of state held a briefing for representatives of domestic and foreign gardens.
the parties discussed the activities of European companies in Kazakhstan, including the possibility of participating in tenders and local content standards.
At the same time, compared with 2014, the volume of dry and ferry cargo transportation through sea ports of whitewash and land increased by 3 times.
in the mining sector, non-ferrous metal production increased by 17.2%, since March this year, iron ore production increased from 92.8% to 101.5%.
As the forum participants noted, French companies show high interest in the issue of capitalization of Kazakhstan, which is a strategic corridor connecting the countries of the Eurasian continent.
According to the results of the first half of 2019, the gross production in livestock grew by 10.5% compared to the same period in 2018, the sown area of ​ ​ fodder crops increased by 19%.
work in this area is carried out jointly with local authorities.
Prime Minister of the Russian Federation D. Medvedev, Prime Minister of Belarus s. rumas, Prime Minister of Armenia N. Pashinyan, Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan M. Abylgaziev and Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission T. Sargsyan.
Governor of Almaty region a. Batalov, akim of Akmola region e. Marzhykpayev, akim of Aktobe region about. Orazalin, akim of Atyrau region of nogai, akim of East Kazakhstan region of akhmetov, akim of Shymkent city of Abdrakhimov informed about the pace of construction work in the selected sectors.
Head of Government - Chief Executive Officer of the company "c3.ai" t. During negotiations with Sibel, they discussed cooperation in the application of artificial intelligence in the oil and gas and other sectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the development of humanitarian ties between two countries with close languages ​ ​ and culture with common Turkic roots.
a. President of tyson foods, the largest producer of meat products in Russia. White and Chairman of the Board of Directors, following negotiations with the Tyson, signed an agreement on the implementation of a program for the development of the modern agro-multiprotein industry in Kazakhstan.
another beautiful city is being built in the south of the country.
information on the ongoing work to eliminate barriers to mutual trade between the EAEU member states was heard.
ensuring frequency of payments;
Hong Kong Denmark dropped from third to fourth place.
Together with the EBRD, the basic base was adopted - the concept of a green financial system for Kazakhstan, the strategy of ahko in its implementation, as well as the rules for issuing green bonds on the ahko exchange.
in addition, the Ministry has drafted legislative amendments that provide for:
A government working group led by the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the city of aksu and its rural zone.
According to the results of the work carried out by the end of 2022, 5089 rural settlements will be connected to the Internet.
The main goal of the project "Village - cradle of the country" is to improve the quality of life in rural areas, modernize the infrastructure of rural areas, bring them into the parameters of the system of regional standards.
Some items are not executed.
and when an accident occurred in industry, such workers remain defenseless and are not compensated for harm to their life and health, "said E. Togzhanov.
Special attention was given to the preparation of schools in the city of arys for the school year.
add the following line:
According to the minister, the positive dynamics of the growth of livestock of farm animals and poultry in agricultural formations remains.
in addition, an effective social security system, modern standards of education of the population will be introduced, the quality and accessibility of medical services will be improved, measures will be taken to create high-quality jobs.
This was announced by Chairman of the Committee on Construction and Housing and Communal Services of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Zhaymbetov.
It's nice that your kids play sports.
universities are granted academic independence.
firstly, a "turnover scheme" is being implemented - the provision of preferential funds to retail chains that have counter-obligations for the sale of socially significant food products at a fixed price.
The improvement development unit includes 4 measures: the construction of bicycle and pedestrian paths, the construction of a park with an area of ​ ​ 47 hectares in the Shymkent city housing estate, an increase in the number of green spaces and green spaces in the city.
In previous years, the cancer center owed "sk-pharmacy" 1.3 billion tenge.
Alpysbayev, Managing Director for Logistics and International Cooperation of Samruk Kazyna, spoke about the plans for the development of airlines under the management of the samruk-kazyna fund.
According to him, a draft order on this issue will be developed, but in order to come to a common solution, it is necessary to discuss both sides.
prospects for the development of tourism in the Caspian Sea were also noted.
By the end of the year, it is necessary to cover all persons whose status has not yet been determined.
hatred today has become very attractive to investors.
The programme will focus on permanent employment.	along with this , changes in the work of these employment centers will be introduced .	0,80
It should be noted that from January to October, 12,403 children were born in the region, thus, over the past two years, the birth rate has increased to 500 children.	by the way , from january to october the number of newborns in the atyrau region amounted to 12,403 children , thus over the past two years the birth rate in the region has increased by 500 children .	0,80
All regions of the country and cities of republican significance will take part in a large-scale event to restore beekeeping.	in a large-scale event for the restoration of the city of arys , all regions of the country and cities of republican significance are involved .	0,80
this growth is ensured by an increase in gross livestock production by 3.6%, which is ensured by an increase in the volume of slaughter of livestock and poultry in living weight by 4.8%, milking raw cow's milk by 3.1%, and the obtained volume of chicken eggs by 2.1%.	this growth is accounted for the growth in gross output of livestock products by 3.6 % , which , in turn , was a result of 4.8 % increase in the slaughter of livestock and poultry , and 3.1 % in raw cow milk production , 2.1 % in the number of chicken eggs .	0,80
The bill also provides for the exemption of residents from investment tax from paying individual income tax on income from sources outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.	also , the bill for investment tax residents proposes exemption from the payment of individual income tax on income from sources outside the republic of kazakhstan .	0,80
The opening of the enterprise will stimulate the development of not only the meat industry, but also other related branches of the ank - veterinary science, agricultural engineering, fodder crops, the opening of feedlots, etc.	the opening of the enterprise will stimulate not only the development of the meat industry , but also other related sectors of the agro-industrial complex - veterinary medicine , agricultural machinery , fodder crops , the creation of feedlots , etc .	0,80
The first stage of the 100-megawatt station was commissioned in the area of ​ ​ the city of Nur-Sultan.	the first phase of the 100-megawatt wind station was commissioned near the city of nur-sultan .	0,80
The issue of raising Kazakhstan's status in the competition committee is under consideration.	the issue of raising the status of kazakhstan in the oecd competition committee is being considered .	0,80
The Deputy Prime Minister also talked with the athletes and wished them high results at the upcoming Games in Tokyo.	also , the deputy prime minister talked with the athletes and wished them good results at the upcoming games in tokyo .	0,80
development of trade and transport infrastructure of the World Bank "Kazakhstan ranks 71st.
Kazakhstan is faced with the task of creating high-tech industries of agricultural machinery and its components. kazakhstan sets itself the task of creating high-tech production of agricultural equipment and components for them .
In addition, the Kazakh delegation visited the tumo center of creative technologies in Yerevan.
The project will be implemented by the Turkish investor "yda holding" as part of a public-private partnership by mid-2022.
we are ready to establish grain exports to Jordan on the basis of long-term contracts, "said the sklyar novel.
During the speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized the historical importance of the decision to transfer the regional center to Turkestan.
technologies that meet the best international standards in the field of ecology and environmental protection will be used.
On the basis of the project office, relevant proposals were developed, which were actively supported by regions, businesses and banks.
It is worth noting that at a recent meeting on the development of the capital, the head of state gave a number of instructions to increase the availability of sports facilities and improve the quality of medical services.
the organization of the budget process at all levels will also be established, with a clear involvement of the population in the formation of local budgets.
In order to remove barriers to private sector investment in science and the development of science by the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Ministry of Education and Science should develop a mechanism for co-financing scientific research from extrabudgetary sources.
After joint control of the launch of the Soyuz MS-15 manned spacecraft, the head of government instructed the director general of the Roscosmos state corporation for space activities in the village of Rogozin to discuss topical issues of implementing the Kazakh-Russian project for the creation of the Nazarbayev launch space rocket system.
Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan e. birtanov, akim of Karaganda region Kassymbek, chairman of the board of the "Compulsory Social Health Insurance Fund" a. Zhumagulov.
in addition, many projects have obligations on social and corporate responsibility - the construction of any roads, access roads, lighting up the streets of settlements, the construction of playgrounds and sports grounds.
At the same time, the first President of Kazakhstan noted that the legislative initiative enshrined in the Constitution is practically not applied by the deputies of the faction.
Kazakhstan's agricultural products are highly regarded in China as high-quality, ecological and natural.
According to the results of 4 months of this year, the volume of industrial production in the region amounted to 943.6 billion tenge, including due to the growth of mechanical engineering by 20.1%.
new legislative initiatives contribute to the creation of an attractive investment climate and the formation of trust relations on the part of investors.
Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy, training and attracting investors
So far, agreements with retail chains have not been concluded and specific work has not been carried out to reduce prices by akimats, despite the fact that budget funds are provided in Kyzylorda and Kostanay cities.
economic growth factors - investment activity, an increase in the share of domestic demand and small and medium-sized businesses in industry, double-digit growth in the sub-sectors of industry, as well as the restoration of oil production.
nevertheless, there are facts of a lag behind schedule, a low level of communal needs and the procurement of fuel for the population.
by the beginning of the school year, 1085 places will be introduced in dormitories.
Within the framework of the program of joint actions in the field of industrial cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, the Kazakhstani company "Agromashholding kz" together with "kamaz" implements a number of projects, including the construction of a plant for the production of belt reduction trucks and special equipment.
In the youth year, the forum's portfolio included new competitions, such as promoting the rules of charity and the best creative works dedicated to the 85th anniversary of al-Farabi excavations.
The prospects and strategic initiatives achieved within the framework of this event create favorable conditions for the dynamic and sustainable development of the oil and gas and energy complex of the country.
due to freight turnover, transport services grew by 5.5%.
due to the restoration of oil production, growth in the mining industry increased to 3.7%. the growth in the mining industry accelerated to 3.7 % as a result of the restoration of oil production .
akimat, in turn, carries out further lending to the population with the involvement of a trusted agent.
The head of government instructed the Ministry of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry, together with telecom operators, to accelerate the construction of fiber-optic communication networks in the regions and accelerate the connection of rural settlements to high-speed Internet.
The third stage is the evaluation of the leadership qualities of candidates, the level of strategic vision, motivation and value.
According to the results of the socio-economic development of the regions, the akim of Almaty region was heard. Batalov, akim of Zhambyl region a. Myrzakhmetov, akim of North Kazakhstan region of Aksakalov.
the implementation of the program will lead to an increase in labor productivity by 1.7 times, the volume of non-primary exports by 2.3 times, investments in fixed assets by 2.3 times, the number of existing enterprises by 1.6 times, "said Kassymbek.
As of August 31 of this year, 29.8% of the sown areas of grain crops were harvested.
according to preliminary calculations, the required volume of investments in the construction of regional wholesale distribution centers is about 5.8 billion tenge.
By July 29, builders had handed over 2,707 houses in the city of arys.
The Kirov plant received modern machines worth 2.2 billion tenge.
Askar Mama got acquainted with the construction of the new Akzhayyk microdistrict and a 9-story residential building, which is being built as part of the Nұrly zhol state program in Uralsk.
The role of trade union organizations, which should also respond to labour disputes and work closely with employers, should be strengthened.
The Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus has established a system of support for the development of scarce renewable energy sources and approved target indicators of achievement.
During the event, the novel spoke to students in high school, talking about the current state of the environmental situation in the world and the anthropogenic environmental impact factor.
In the afternoon, Askar Mama visited the international Caspian exhibition of innovative technologies in the seaport of the city of Turkmenbash.
in addition, he noted a modern memorable trend - oil giants began to develop renewable energy projects.
in the whole country, grain crops were harvested on an area of ​ ​ 4.5 million hectares - 22.8%.
Since July this year, the export of gasoline began, the volume of exports amounted to 42.6 thousand tons.
general accumulation of stable and consistent economic dynamics, average growth of domestic consumption and exports. sustainable and progressive dynamics of the economy will be ensured by a higher increase in gross capital formation , moderate growth in domestic consumption and exports .
So, in Orel LLP, which is engaged in the reconstruction of the road from 0 to 60 km of the Usharal - friendship highway, more than 330 jobs have been created.
his Government had made every effort to support the younger generation.
to reduce costs and save funds of subordinate organizations of state bodies.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan received the delegation of the regional commonwealth in the field of communications, as well as the Secretary General of the international telecommunication union zhao howl and the Director General of the Universal Postal Union.
In total, 117,242 people take part in the UNT, including this year 96,380 graduates or 71.6% of the total number of graduates, 20,862 graduates of schools and colleges of previous years, "said A. Aimagambetov.
nurymbets reported on the adjustment of the current mechanism of remuneration and social protection of the population of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev and akim of Karaganda region met with the public of the region.
at the same time, with. According to Omarov, the export strategy of the current year will differ from the strategy of last year aimed at expanding export destinations.
they check both republican roads and roads of regional and regional significance.
of these, 669 is made.
The Prime Minister stressed that the European Union is one of the largest trade and investment partners of Kazakhstan.
In her welcoming speech, Mr. Abdykalikova noted: "Youth is our future.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. took part in the XI meeting of the Kazakh-Turkish intergovernmental economic commission in Istanbul.
Following the talks, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Government of Kazakhstan and the eckdb on the implementation of a comprehensive program for the modernization of health infrastructure in Kazakhstan.
new jobs will also be created in the production service sector.
now the rating of universities is compiled by the employment of graduates and their demand in the market, "B. Saparbayev noted.
The educational block provides for the construction of 15 schools with 23,500 seats, which will eliminate three-shift schools by 2023.
the theme of the upcoming plenary meeting of the council is very relevant. the topic of the upcoming plenary meeting of the council is extremely relevant .
As part of this law, the kazangels business club and the recently planned launch of two kaztechventures venture funds allowed the creation of an institution of support.
this amount should reach the purchase of individual housing.
In addition, the head of state noted the need to eliminate bureaucracy and complex coordination procedures in the work of the faction.
an effective social security system
that's very good.
Heads of regional branches and contracting organizations Kazavtodor reported on the ongoing work and projects.
in November, after the akimats issued the relevant orders, additional bonds in the amount of 5.9 billion tenge will be purchased. in november , additional bonds worth 5.9 billion tenge will be purchased as the akimats issue relevant orders .
Deputy Prime Minister noted that at present Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for revealing the intellectual potential of young people.
in the transport industry, an acceleration of up to 5.3% is planned.
Repair work covered 4,617 km of local roads.
Kassymbek noted that taking into account international standards, a draft new environmental code has been developed.
During the conversation, the parties agreed that the exclusion of jackson-venik amendments from Kazakhstan will further strengthen the economic ties between Kazakhstan and the United States of America.
in the city of Omaha, the Prime Minister, the Governor of Nebraska, with Ricketz and President of valmon Industries, a leader in the irrigation system market. met with Kanievsky.
a fine of 20 to 120 monthly calculation indicators is provided, "said A. Aimagambetov.
R. According to Dalenov, sovereign credit ratings are the most important factor for investors.
Askar Mama also inspected the reconstruction of the building of the National Center for Silk Road Artisans, the entry center, the construction of the eastern bath, the regional scientific and universal library.
The Head of the EU Representative Office in Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the established bilateral relations of the member states of the Sven-Olov Karlsson and the active involvement of the Government of Kazakhstan will give an additional impetus to strengthening investment cooperation using the existing potential.
Currently, 6,611 or 90% of the 7,516 affected single-storey private houses have been repaired.
A special trip of the participants begins with the sights of the Almaty region: the large Almaty lake (bao), "medeu," "shymbulak," "sharyn gorges."
today Nazarbayev University is the flagship of higher education in the country.
Prime Minister a. Mamin instructed the akims of the regions to strengthen measures to ensure growth in indicators in the field of construction, investment, industry and housing commissioning.
the growth of real incomes of the population amounted to 6.4%.
To date, work has been carried out on the construction of temporary buildings and structures, the demolition of previously existing administrative facilities, digging pits, lowering water levels, breaking up pillars, and fundamental work has begun.
The Minister of National Economy elaborated on the features of calculating these transfers.
this is aimed at preventing excessive lending policies.
the main factors are the increase in consumption and the continuation of investment activities.
consultation, technical expertise, special equipment and software are available in these centres.
To date, 52.3% of these funds have been used.
the second level is the package of compulsory social health insurance for the insured population, which includes advisory, diagnostic, planned inpatient care and free medical care for a wide range of diseases, including free medical care, hospital replacement care, rehabilitation and rehabilitation treatment.
in Kazakhstan, as an honorary guest, they warmly recall your participation in the anniversary meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council, "Askar mom said.	askar mamin conveyed warm words of welcome on behalf of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state of kazakhstan kassym-jomart tokayev .	0,81
on the results of hearing central and local executive bodies and organizing work to attract Dalen investments, on import substitution - chairman of Atameken a. myrzakhmetov, the manager of akhko K. kelimbets reported on the approaches of akhko on attracting investments in the regions.
46,809 residential buildings are planned for repair, in fact 45,908 residential buildings or 98.1% are prepared.
In addition, according to him, public councils, members of the Nұr Otan party, any young activists have the right to public monitoring of the quality of such housing and the fulfillment of contract obligations.
for example, a one-story 16-story housing with clean decoration is usually built for 12-18 months, using this technology you can build in just 4 months.
the exhibition clothing of the Museum of Northern Ankara Civilizations is a reconstruction of a golden man in a special conical headdress with gold patches and gold slices in the form of arrows, a snow passage, an arcar, a horse and a bird and burial along with this young white warrior (according to archaeologists about 17-18 years BC. e.) early Iron Age. a collection of archaeological finds.
The Governor of Turkestan region, together with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, should complete the work on the payment of lump-sum compensation to residents of the city of arys and suburban settlements.
in addition, to improve transport communication, the roads Atyrau - Aktobe and Atyrau - Astrakhan will be reconstructed.
as you know, we are faced with the task of improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis and improving the quality of life. as you know , we face a serious task of increasing the well-being of kazakhstanis and improving the quality of life .
a. Mamin proposed to develop a draft roadmap for intensifying trade and economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Mongolia for 2021-2024.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was given information about the measures taken to develop the sphere of art and culture in the region.
Kassym-generous Tokayev stressed that, in addition to providing operational decisions on everyday issues, we are faced with the task of determining the medium-term future of the economy, taking into account negative trends in international markets.
The parties considered the prospects for the development of bilateral cooperation in the field of management of global supply systems, including transit and logistics, the agro-industrial complex.
all this made it possible to occupy 51st place in the global index of authoritative financial centers out of 102 and take 1st place among financial centers of eastern Europe and central Asia, ahead of Istanbul, Warsaw, Budapest, Moscow and Baku.
Prime Minister A. Mamaev was informed that engineering exploration, demining of the city's territory are ongoing, fires are taken into account, measures have been taken to return citizens to their homes and ensure the protection of their property.
All the people are concerned about the state of the inhabitants of the Arysian city, the whole country is involved. all citizens of our country are concerned about the state of the inhabitants of arys and provide all possible assistance .
Minister of Agriculture with. Lobster reported on the situation.
To date, about 30 projects totaling $3.8 billion have been fully implemented.
conceptual issues of cross-border information interaction, development of industrial cooperation, agro-industrial complex of the countries of the union, as well as issues of cooperation of customs services of the member states of the customs union.
The head of government emphasized the need for timely reception of grain by the granary and ensuring appropriate measures to preserve the harvested grain.
To date, more than 3.5 thousand people have been registered on this resource.
then regular flights will be operated 7 times a week not only between the capitals, but also between Almaty and Doha.
credit limits between regions are determined in proportion to the number of waiting lists.
It is proposed to establish new state benefits for large families in a differentiated amount from 42,500 to 73,375 tenge. it is proposed to establish a new state allowance for large families in differentiated sizes from 42,500 to 73,375 tenge .
transport communication of villages with regional and regional centers will be improved.
This year, the project plans to implement 5 projects worth 9.3 billion tenge with the creation of 434 new jobs.
Currently, joint production in the field of transport engineering, production of building materials, medicines, food products is successfully functioning.
when calculating the debt burden ratio of citizens, all obligations of the borrower when providing a loan, its solvency and social status will be taken into account.
when implementing the project, there should be strict control over the return of borrowed money, "said A. Mamin.
A meeting on economic issues was held under the chairmanship of the President of the Kazakh generous Tokayev at the Akorda residence.
camera control techniques are also being improved.
all of this actually has specific addresses.
of these, 332 are implemented according to the standard service mechanism and 226 on the principle of mja, these are projects for the opening of private schools and the commissioning of dormitories. of these , 332 projects are implemented according to the standard ppp mechanism and 226 projects on the basis of the ppp principle , these are projects on opening private schools and introducing hostels .
annual dynamics of prices for paid services historically remains at the lowest level - 0.8%.
in order for the level of district, urban and rural power to be economically more independent in solving problems of local importance, appropriate legislative acts will be adopted. " smailov.
among them are individual projects and works, as well as collective creative work.
Eurasian forum Kazenergy has become the main international event of the region's energy sector in more than a decade of history.
According to the minister, the introduced nutrition mechanism has positive and negative facts.
The task of monitoring the implementation of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps is set for the faction of the Nұr Otan party in the country's parliament.
The Prime Minister instructed the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs to accelerate the approval of professional standards and, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, ensure the updating of educational standards.
at a meeting with the Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan bozumbayev, Chairman of the Board of KazMunaigaz JSC. Aydarbayev and akim of Atyrau region AD nogaev.
As a result, 650 thousand families or more than 2 million citizens will be provided with new housing.
Improving budget planning and avoiding inefficient image costs.
development of effective credit products for agricultural producers, maximum automation of the lending process and reduction of the time for consideration of loan applications.
in general, the unified electricity system of Kazakhstan operates normally along with the energy systems of the Russian Federation and the countries of Central Asia.
for environmental damage based on the recovery of high monetary compensation on the principle of payment by the polluter.
The fleet of 103 Pavlodar services totals more than 100 units of special transport.
it is also necessary to actively intervene in the development of mass sports.
Director of the Department of Renewable Energy of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan Ainur Sospanova told about the development of renewable energy in Kazakhstan.
As for the export of Kazakhstan high-octane gasoline, the legislative framework is now fully ready. with regard to the export of kazakhstani high-octane gasoline , today the legal framework has been fully prepared .
The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the polpharma group of Polish companies, in turn, informed the Prime Minister about the current conditions in joint projects.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sklyar, General Director of Kamaz s. Akim of Kostanay region a. Mukhambetov and chairman of the board "brk - leasing" n. baybazars.
as a result of his great research, works, great talent, he created masterpieces of applied art.
Reports of the National Bank of Kazakhstan and akims of a number of regions were heard.
Base case scenario based on forecast and budget parameters.
a. The specialist was informed about plans to produce up to 2500 units per year in the near future.
the increase in the number of families applying for targeted social assistance has affected the work of precinct commissions working on a voluntary basis. an increase in the number of families applying for targeted social assistance has affected the work of polling stations working on a voluntary basis .
Since July of this year, a mortgage lending program for large and low-income families with a rate of 2% per annum has been implemented. since july 2019 , a program of preferential mortgage lending for large and low-income families at 2 % per annum has been implemented .
Currently, the first president of Kazakhstan is N. Nazarbayev. Within the framework of Nazarbayev's programs "Modernization of public consciousness," "Seven Facets of the Great Steppe," a lot of work is being done in the field of culture and art.
this document provides for the creation of a thematic venture fund in Kazakhstan in the future.
the number of recipients of targeted social assistance increases by at least half.
the parties noted the great potential for expanding investment cooperation and expressed their intention to intensify joint work.
At the meeting, the first president of Kazakhstan announced the plans of the city branch of the Nұr Otan party for a program of systematic modernization of party activities.
foreign direct investment is an important source of investment. foreign direct investment is a significant source of investment .
The Deputy Prime Minister also met with the Minister of Culture of Azerbaijan Abulfaz Garayev.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population b. nurymbets noted that supporting entrepreneurial initiatives in order to provide social state support to the unemployed is one of the main areas of the state program "Labor."
but treating cancer, if detected earlier, is difficult. however , oncological diseases are much easier to treat if they are detected early .
the new trading regime with foreign currencies will expand the possibility of settlements in tenge for foreign participants.
The Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan made a report on this issue.
improved equipment of sports equipment. equipping sports equipment also leaves much to be desired .
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in gross domestic product increased to 28.4%.
At the meeting, the draft republican plan for the preparation and holding of the 175th anniversary of the disadvantage was considered, at which about 500 different events at the international, republican and regional levels are planned.
this measure does not provide support to socially vulnerable segments of the population.
that is, they do not decrease and do not go anywhere, and are also redistributed to subsidize only in priority areas: the acquisition of breeding stock, as well as import-dependent positions - milk, poultry meat, sugar beets.
The parties discussed a project for the further expansion of Tengizshevroil worth $36.8 billion.
conveying his opinion on the proposed approaches, the head of the tribal granary of Anatolian Rafal noted that in recent years all the agrarians of Kazakhstan have received great support from the state.
In addition, awareness-raising activities within the framework of compulsory social health insurance will continue in the second half of the year.
they are put into effect from January 2020.
trade volumes due to wholesale trade increased by 7.6%.
happy - a great experience, a professional leader. bakytzhan abdirovich is a leader with great experience .
to provide the population with heat, electricity, gas, it is planned to build electric substations agrs-3 and agrs-6.
in the upcoming five-year period, it is planned to introduce favorable business commitments (preservation/increase of jobs, growth of taxes paid and income of program participants), expansion of lending goals for the acquisition and refinancing of franchises.
the second phase of the project is planned for 2020-2021.
One effective measure is diagnosis and early detection.
To date, Kazakhstan has more than 340 legal entities, branches and representative offices with the participation of Belarus.
Business Simplicity Index - an index for comparing business simplicity between countries of the world, compiled by the World Bank on the basis of annual data.
the head of government instructed to adjust the existing system of regulation of labor relations taking into account modern conditions.
Since the beginning of the year, the volume of industrial production in Pavlodar region amounted to 1.6 trillion tenge, which is 19 billion tenge or 1.8% more than in the same period last year.
In Tatarstan, askar mom met with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev.
Askar Mama voiced proposals to improve the functional content of transport systems and increase the efficiency of multimedia transportation.
Measures will be taken to improve legislation and enforcement on public procurement and the quasi-public sector. " smailov.
on the additional measures taken by the national bank to implement the decree of the head of state, including measures to regulate the consumer loan without collateral, chairman of the national bank e. Dossaev told.
the owners of the first place received one year of free training grant at the excavation named after al-Farabi.
The project to build a bypass road along the Almaty railway station had a positive impact on the indicators of railway density and "railway transport efficiency."
airlines use dynamic pricing, where there is a mathematical model that takes into account all these indicators, "said the deputy chairman of the civil aviation committee.
Since the beginning of this year, there has been a positive trend in growth.
Following the meeting, Berdybek Saparbayev instructed to continue work on the implementation of the medical insurance system, updating the status of the population and informing the population.
The Prime Minister developed proposals to create competitive conditions in the markets of vital drugs and proposed clarifying the network of drugs that can be considered mutual without conducting additional verification procedures taking into account international rules in this area.
the average growth in these sectors will be 4.7%.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. on the impact of planned structural transformations in the country's economy on the labor market and the development of entrepreneurship, on the implementation of the "labor" program, Vice Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan a. Sarbasov, on microcredit in the village with. Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP Atameken e. Zhumagaziev, akim of Pavlodar region on the work of regions on employment of bakauov citizens and akim of Mangistau region. Turymov reported.
We are confident that the functioning of the akiu, whose headquarters will be located in the nur-sultan, will be a qualitatively new step in economic cooperation and will contribute to the provision of food assistance to needy Muslim countries by creating food reserves, "said Sklyar.
Unfortunately, there has been a misuse of targeted social assistance by individuals.
The main goal of the project was to develop the potential of domestic and external tourism and the development of cross-border routes by consistently developing tourist facilities during the expedition, making proposals for improving infrastructure and creating new tourist routes.
In addition, sectoral ministries need to strengthen measures to achieve the planned indicators in the field of coal, crude oil, chemical industry and steel.
The Venture Finance Act is an essential component of the development of the country's innovation ecosystem.
in January-September this year, wool growth compared to the same period last year amounted to 4.3%.
we are striving to turn the settlement process into a well-managed trend, so we need to continue to pursue a balanced urban development policy. we strive to ensure that the urbanization process becomes clearly manageable , and therefore it is necessary to continue to pursue a balanced urban development policy .
The head of government noted the importance of urbanization in improving incomes and the quality of life of people.
14 renewable electricity facilities with a capacity of 402 MW were launched in the electricity generation sector for 10 months of this year.
The work of the new Ministry of Trade and Integration in order to increase exports and expand markets for Kazakhstani goods will be aimed at developing and implementing a set of measures.
approaches to subsidizing livestock were well developed, the whole experience of import substitution was developed.
local executive bodies plan to repair 10,623 independent boiler houses, of which 10,606 boiler houses or 99.8% are prepared. local executive bodies planned to repair 10,623 autonomous boiler rooms , of which 10,606 boiler rooms or 99.8 % were prepared .
Planning, solicitation, development, registration and execution of business terms and conditions are translated into electronic format for the purpose of digitalization.
A. Aimagambetov noted that work on ensuring the quality of textbooks is ongoing.
A new information system providing for the digitalization of land cadastre processes is being developed as a single state real estate cadastre.
The main factors of economic growth were investment activity and an increase in production of the real sector, "said R. Dalenov.
in addition, the program will allow to develop business.
a. According to Smailov, this year it is planned to develop a normative framework in terms of increasing the role of strategic plans, when considering which budget program administrators will prove the need to allocate funds to achieve the industry and target indicators that affect the further development of the country as a whole.
The head of state and the head of state gave concrete instructions to improve the availability and quality of healthcare services. elbasy and the head of state set an important task to improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare .
To continue to ensure positive dynamics, it is necessary to make every effort to protect our economy from the growing challenges of international and local cybercrime. to further ensure positive momentum , efforts must be made to protect our economy from the growing threats of international and local cybercrime .
each visitor has a map equipped with an international disease registry system.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama held a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China (China), within the framework of his visit to Tashkent to participate in the 18th meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu).
participants of the meeting exchanged views on the implementation and localization of the center of sustainable development in Kazakhstan, noted the positive results achieved and discussed the problems of further implementation of these goals.
I instruct you to include in the state labor program a separate block on youth employment with specific indicators, "said A. Mamin.
in turn, the head of the Eurasian division of the secretariat of global relations eidu. Thompson spoke about the results of Kazakhstan's cooperation with eidu and about further cooperation.
In turn, the chakrabarti noted that Kazakhstan is one of the five countries of the world, and also noted the prospects of Kazakhstan joining the top 3 and expressed interest in further development of cooperation.
Askar Mama noted that the share of local content in the procurement of operators of large projects shows growth, but the development of the products of Kazakh machine builders is not fully used.
measures for the development of science are currently being implemented. today , a number of measures are being taken to develop science .
By July 23, builders had handed over 1963 objects of individual housing construction and an apartment building.
Overfulfits are provided mainly through taxes. the overfulfillment is mainly accounted for taxes .
On July 30 this year, banks and microfinance organizations wrote off fines and penalties for tax-free consumer loans to 1.2 million citizens totaling 33.6 billion tenge.
Within the framework of his visit to Tashkent, Askar Mama took part in the 18th meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu), where he made a number of initiatives to strengthen real cooperation between the member countries of the organization in trade, economic, digital, transport and other areas.
By the end of this year, two more sides are expected to join, respectively, we will observe an increase in flights in many areas.
As of July 15, 1,047 houses were restored in the city of arys.
the employer himself must determine what skills he needs, "said A. Mamin.
The management of Kazagro informed the government about the development of the draft strategy of the holding for the 10-year period, aimed at increasing labor productivity and exporting bank products, attracting private investment and innovative technologies, as well as developing new business initiatives in the countryside.
The President of the National Paralympic Committee of Zhulat Boranbaev familiarized the guests with the activities of the Paralympic movement in the country and the development of mass sports among people with disabilities.
In addition, in accordance with the state program "digital Kazakhstan," Zerde Holding, together with local executive bodies, conducts digital literacy training courses.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev met with active youth during a working trip to Karaganda region.
Also, the Deputy Prime Minister appealed to the Director General of UNESCO with a request to support next year at the organization's headquarters international events to celebrate the 175th anniversary of the great Kazakh poet and thinker.
Deputy Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Aybek Alzhanov in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке explained the issue of pricing for air tickets in Kazakhstan.
young entrepreneur, "young specialist," "future," "talent" and other programs.
in addition, this will solve the issue of transit of sanctioned goods through the territory of the Russian Federation.
reducing the number of kazagro, its subsidiaries, turning them into a compact holding, excluding duplication of functions between them, distinguishing their actual relationship by functionality;
The project manager noted that the project pays special attention to the use of domestic construction materials.
At the same time, half of the housing built by private developers is sold at a fixed price to investors of residential construction bank and participants in the 7-20-25 program.
The forum was attended by about 200 representatives of Dutch and Kazakhstani businesses.
for each citizen attached to the clinic, an electronic health passport has been drawn up.
During the meeting, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov focused on the development of the transit potential of Kazakhstan, in the near future a large-scale project "Western Europe - Western China" will be completed.
there is great interest on the part of investors interested in solving the issue and at the level of government bodies. we see great interest both from those interested in the decision at the level of state bodies , and great interest from investors .
The Prime Minister instructed to make adjustments to the regional plans for 100% provision of water supply to cities and villages in 2023 and take measures to put into operation all water supply facilities.
the village is the cradle of the country and other state programs.
the parties expressed readiness for regular consultations in this area.
among children participating in UNT, their number is 708.
arsenal.
To date, the production of basic building materials has been established in Kazakhstan.
the legislative framework is being improved.
the main goal is to improve the quality of life of the population through controlled urbanization, to increase social and social benefits to the population on the principle of "walking distance."
Work on laying a cable at the bottom of the Caspian Sea with a length of about 380-400 kilometers is carried out by the Azerbaijani telecom operator "transtelecom" white, "" kaztranscom "white and" azertelecom. "
"I am sure that your official visit to the country will give a significant impetus to strengthening cooperation between the countries."
Also during the meeting the Governor of Zhambyl region a. Myrzakhmetov and first deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region e. on the progress of renewable energy projects in the regions.
As the head of state noted in his message, one of the problematic issues in the field of civil aviation is the high cost of air tickets, which is associated with factors such as pricing for air transportation, the level of fuel and passenger traffic.
In the production cycle, there is support for information and consulting services for Kazakhstani farmers on the model of American "extension" activities, which include consultation, training of local personnel and vocational training.
Askar Mama called on the ambassadors of the European Union to further open and active dialogue to support trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU.
we do not observe the improvement of positions in the rating only to attract foreign investors. we monitor the position in the ranking not only to attract foreign investors .
the Government was working to make them accessible to children.
During negotiations with the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of Nepal, the Krishna Bahadur Mahara discussed the conditions and prospects for the implementation of investment projects by the conglomerate "cg corp global" for the development of a tourist cluster in the city of Shymkent.
During the important international event, which was attended by more than 150 representatives of the business community of France, the prospects of expanding the Kazakh-French partnership were discussed not only at the state level, but also cooperation between business circles and citizens of the two countries.
Uzbek side's investments in the project amount to about 4.6 billion tenge.
the parties agreed to develop a dialogue on topical issues of bilateral and regional cooperation.
During the meeting at the Electrotechnical College, Berdybek Saparbayev raised issues of implementing state programs in the field of education, improving the quality of services, improving the social status of teachers.
At the same time, according to him, the specific Kazakh products include multinational and multinational, covering diversity in the size of our land, landscape diversity, climatic features, menus, languages, etc.
in recent years, there has been a positive increase in livestock production.
Within the framework of the festival, three-day free workshops on traditional craft were held for large, low-income, unemployed women.
per capita is 2.1 million tenge.
I wish all employees and veterans of the transport industry good health, happiness to families, success for the good of the country!
The Head of Government thanked them for their work, noting that "thanks to the coordinated joint work, it was possible to evacuate residents in a timely manner and prevent the large-scale consequences of the emergency."
special tax regimes for agricultural producers.
Minister of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan B. sultans, Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. dalen, Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan with. On current prices for food products, the activities of stabilization funds and measures taken to prevent price increases.
President of the Montenegrin Assembly and. with Bryovich, Chairman of the Assembly of Northern Macedonia, the development of cooperation in the tourism, agricultural and transport spheres, including by creating joint industries and expanding the use of transit and transport potential of Kazakhstan by the countries of the Balkan Peninsula and central Europe to enter the markets of Chinese and Southeast Asian states.
our main task is to improve the well-being of citizens by increasing productive employment. our main task is to increase the welfare of citizens by enhancing productive employment .
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov reported on the ongoing work in this direction and the draft program for the upcoming five-year period, on training in the basics of doing business and advising entrepreneurs. myrzakhmetov.
only timely and qualitative implementation of the message will increase the standard of living of citizens and ensure structural modernization of the economy. only timely and high-quality implementation of the address will provide an increase in the standard of living of citizens and structural modernization of the economy .
at a meeting with the vice president of the transnational company Cisco, Didrich, the issues of implementing the updated strategy of cooperation in the field of information technologies and achieving the goals enshrined in the state program "digital Kazakhstan" were discussed.
The government delegation headed by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev met with the public of Semipalatinsk.
From 2016 to the present, 390 secondary schools, more than 400 medical facilities have been built, centers for help with heart attack and stroke have been created.
as the number and quality of such infrastructure facilities increases, the effect of reducing trade costs will be enhanced.
Chairman of the Board of the Turkish group of companies anadolu during a meeting with the night ozilkhan discussed issues of investment cooperation.
The main thing is that all measures must be carried out drastically.
The Speaker of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Nurlan Nigmatulin held a joint meeting of the Houses of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, during which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan addressed the deputies with a proposal to extend the work of the fourth session of the VI convocation.
in particular, in the last month alone, the number of approved projects increased by 2 times.
fifth - should not have housing in their own property.
this category of goods has risen in price against the backdrop of rising world prices and export volumes. dossiers.
the network of preschool organizations has increased by 279 units and makes up 10,593 institutions with a contingent of 906.5 thousand children.
most of the destruction arrived on the territory adjacent to the military training ground, which was divided into 5 conditional sectors and assigned to the akimats of Turkestan, Karaganda, Pavlodar and Zhambyl regions.
Today, the rating is interconnected with internal logistics factors: socio-economic stability of the supply chain, skills and training, environmental impact.
This year, the plant will master the modern production of computer equipment under the Kazakhstan brand, which will become an important factor in ensuring the safety of domestic information systems and the development of the electronic industry.
Today, France is one of the five main trade and investment partners of Kazakhstan.
The head of state, in his message, K. Tokaev, recalled the need to be very responsible about the implementation of social health insurance.
if there is no specialty, we can support training, work, receive grants and microcredit, open a private business.
issues of implementation of the "start-business," "young entrepreneur" projects discussed today, microcredit are closely related to the employment of the population.
8 thousand village improvement projects were implemented.
memorandum of understanding for joint implementation of projects in the field of irrigation of land with. President, General Director of Lobsters and Valmont Industry.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, an archaeological sensation occurred in the suburbs of Almaty, during which a well-known archaeologist discovered the remains of a "golden man" - the Saki tsar, who later became a symbol of Kazakhstan.
a. smailov announced the launch of the project "Eurasian Line of Industrial Cooperation, Subcontracting and Technology Transfer," which through cooperative ties will attract small and medium-sized businesses to production chains.
At the end of 2019, there will be 86 facilities with a capacity of 960 megawatts in the country.
when parents are at work, the child remains on his own.
in addition, Kazakhstan is a reliable partner for French business in the Central Asian region.
in the regions there are deputy akims directly involved in investment projects. in the regions there are deputy akims who are directly involved in attracting investments .
in his message, the president instructed to modernize the work of the commission.
today in rural areas there are a number of unresolved issues. today in the countryside there are a number of unresolved problems .
Minister of Agriculture for Livestock Development with. Lobster, Chairman of the Board of Kazagro Holding e. Karashukeev, akim of West Kazakhstan region of Escalyev, akim of Kyzylorda region, deputy akim of North Kazakhstan region M. Tasmaganbetov, heads of agricultural enterprises - general director of "empire food" javidan a., vice president of "Makinsky poultry farm" p. Tokseitova made a report.
through the implementation of comprehensive measures, the economic concentration of labor and financial resources will be achieved.
this is a small set of schools, the volume of potential agricultural products, the area, the number of housing, the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the gross regional product of the region.
It is worth noting that more than 900 students will study at the new gymnasium No. 87.
Since September 1 of this year, a pilot project has been implemented in the Karaganda region, which made it possible to test the mams system and prepare it for full implementation in Kazakhstan.
special attention was paid to the agreement between the two countries on free trade in services and investment.
our task is to teach them to live in the modern world. "
growth and renewal of the aircraft fleet as a whole, as well as an increase in the pace of flights.
The concept of the "smart capital," based on the successful experience of advanced European cities, provides for the introduction of advanced technologies and artificial study in the fields of education, health care, transport, public services, infrastructure - in areas that affect the quality of life of the local population and the perception of the city by visitors.
in January-July this year, wool growth amounted to 4.2% compared to the corresponding period last year.
The Prime Minister noted that in order to ensure high-quality and sustainable economic growth, it is necessary to make every effort to attract investment, create jobs, increase productivity and improve the well-being of citizens.
The meeting participants discussed issues of supporting domestic producers, preventing an increase in prices for socially significant food products and tariffs, assigning targeted social assistance, providing housing for large families, as well as preparing for the heating season and the new school year.
The Agency for Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the authorized state body in the field of monitoring the observance of the quality of public services and public services.
for example, an international scientific and practical conference in the city of Nur-Sultan, UNESCO headquarters in Paris Production and production of the feature film "Abay," translation and lighting of abay's works into foreign languages, as well as events to increase the comprehensive popularity of the abay house-museum. It is planned to carry out scientific and restoration work in the state historical, cultural and literary-memorial museum-reserve "Zhidebay-burly," taking measures to increase the role of the historical and cultural character.
Following the negotiations, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the international financial center "Capital" and the company "wildberries," as well as a certificate of registration "wildberries" as a participant in ahco.
Of course, at various stages of project implementation, a different number of workers are involved in projects. at different stages of project implementation , of course , a different number of employees is involved in the project .
Today, in Kazakhstan, in the field of healthcare related to cancer, contacts have been established with many countries of Europe and Asia.
in the first half of this year, the unemployment rate fell to 4.8%.
winners and prize-winners were awarded diplomas and valuable prizes.
within the framework of the program, a single transport system of the country will be formed.
National tourism product refers to a particularly specific tourism product that is now offered. national tourism product refers to the most distinctive tourism products that are currently offered .
The drafted bill meets the tasks set by the Head of State to develop the secondary education system and improve the quality of education.
The head of government noted that taking into account the weather features in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to take all measures to preserve the harvested grain, bakery enterprises should ensure the preservation of grain, as well as timely reception of processing and drying of wet grain.
for transparency, citizens will have access to information about the selection participants, that is, Kazakhstanis will be able to see who applied for participation in the selection.
One of the main areas of the program is the development of roads.
Also, 1746 builders are involved in the repair of 62 social facilities.
Ensuring efficient and targeted use of budget funds for agriculture financing;
According to him, the labor market is affected by digitalization and the development of information and communication technologies, which contributes to the growth of labor productivity.
The head of government noted that on the principle of "shuga," projects of safe and high-quality roads from the capital are being implemented in the direction of south - center, center - east, center - west, which will ensure a direct transition from south to north and west of the country.
teachers have a great responsibility, our children will reach great heights if you truly cope with your duties.
According to him, in all regions of the country there are more than 200 resource centers aimed at providing assistance, as well as more than 500 non-governmental organizations in the field of youth policy.
to this end, first of all, the village infrastructure will be modernized due to existing state programs and the "village-cradle of the country" project, and entrepreneurship will be supported as part of the development of the agro-industrial complex, the "business roadmap 2020," "labor" and other existing programs.
in Kazakhstan there are few cattle, we have few cattle both in the dairy direction and in meat. in kazakhstan , there is not enough livestock ; we have very few animals in the dairy and meat sectors .
exhibition clothing in the Department of Museums of Malaysia is a reconstruction of a golden man in a special conical headdress with gold patches and gold slices in the form of arrows, a snow passage, an arcar, horses and a bird and burial along with this young white warrior (according to archaeologists about 17-18 years BC). a collection of archaeological finds.
R. According to the sklyar, the growth in coal and lignite production (excluding coal concentrate) amounted to 97.3%.
More than 2,500 participants from more than 50 countries, including more than 30 international organizations, as well as about 300 large energy companies, attend the forum annually.
The forum has become an important platform in the country aimed at developing a patriotic feeling, civic responsibility and the intellectual and creative potential of youth.
The head of government noted that in order to reduce import dependence, increasing domestic production is one of the priorities for the development of agriculture.
The Head of Government also noted the importance of timely preparation for the construction of housing, the supply of engineering infrastructure.
As part of the digitalization of sectors of the economy, new technologies are being introduced at enterprises of fuel, energy and mining and metallurgical complexes.
The current policy in the country is aimed at improving the well-being and income of the population. the current policy is aimed at improving the welfare and increasing incomes of the population .
Affected residential buildings are distributed among areas to be directed by construction teams.
on the project of construction and commissioning of expressways of Turkestan region
Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Saparkhan Lobsters and Minister of Energy Kanat Bozumbayev made a report.
following the results of negotiations, the manager of the akhko K. Kelimbets and the head of the "one web" a. Shtekel signed a document on the further promotion of the project.
I consider it necessary to pilot a project to improve household incomes of residents of the region, "said B. Nurymbetov
As part of his visit to Moscow, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in meetings of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council (EAEU), where he made a number of initiatives to resolve topical issues of economic integration in the CIS and EAEU.
at the same time, despite the low volume of purchases, 12 out of 17 regions hold 2.7 billion tenge on deposits of second-tier banks allocated to the stabilization fund.
it is necessary to unleash the full potential of bilateral trade by increasing trade and economic cooperation on both sides. it is necessary to unleash the full potential of bilateral trade by mutually expanding trade and economic cooperation .
Minister of Agriculture with. Lobster, Minister of Energy of Bozumbayev, Akim of Akmola region e. marzhykpayev, akim of Kostanay region a. Mukhambetov, akim of North Kazakhstan region of Aksakalov, akim of Zhambyl region a. Myrzakhmetov, akim of Turkestan region Shukeev, as well as Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
if an able-bodied family member refuses the proposed employment measures, he and all members of his family will be deprived of the right to receive targeted social assistance.
the task of one window office is to interact with investors, provide information and consulting support on business projects, as well as explain the norms of legislation in the field of business and concession.
Minister of Agriculture with. Presentations were made by lobsters, representatives of agribusiness i.sauer, a.rafalsky and a.behanazarov.
The head of government got acquainted with the development of projects in the field of agricultural products processing in the Enbekshikazakh district of Almaty region, in particular, he got acquainted with export-oriented apple orchards "action bio," an "honest" bank with significant export potential, a digital dairy farm and a corn site.
Governor's Office of Turkestan region on the progress of Shukei's work, Minister of Culture and Sports. Raimkulova, akim of Atyrau region n. nogaev, akim of Aktobe region about. Orazalin, akim of the city of Shymkent e. aitakhans, as well as representatives of contractors responsible for the construction of other regions and cities.
however, support should not lead to an outbreak of oppression.
from. In the livestock industry, lobster noted an increase in gross output by 3.9%, including meat production increased by 5.5%, milk - by 3.2%.
The global competitiveness index is calculated by the World Economic Forum.
Our cart, which we purchased 8 years ago, is better than the wheelchair that we were given this year. the wheelchair that we bought eight years ago is better than the one we were given this year .
in turn, at. Khurelsukh noted that over the years of independence and after the transition to a market economy, Kazakhstan has achieved great success, ensuring stable economic development and a favorable investment climate.
Also, in order to improve the quality of communication services, the Ministry will work to identify places of poor quality of communication networks.
The plant will create more than 700 jobs and will allow the construction of 405 thousand square meters of housing per year, which will also increase the employment of the population and improve the provision of citizens with affordable housing.
At the same time, our main task is to improve the quality of life of rural residents, create infrastructure for citizens.
we prioritize such areas and homes.
in addition, the plant has social support programs.
in general, the facility needs complete modernization.
summing up the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister noted the need for interaction among all interested parties.
Continue to further reduce barriers.
As of September 1 of this year, harvesting is carried out in all regions of the republic.
The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, regarding the generously skillful Tokayev, continued the initiatives of the head of state in this area on a continuous basis, within the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol" gave instructions to the government to increase the efficiency of the transport and logistics system, further develop the transit potential and infrastructure of the country.
cities develop a broad market with managed urbanization and create conditions for labor mobility.
Head of Government Secretary General of the World Tourism Organization (unwto) z. a meeting was held with Apolikashvili, at which issues of urban management, the development of tourism and "smart cities," the use of advanced technologies to increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstan's cities were discussed.
the company is also interested in implementing projects in the field of gas chemistry, the healthcare system, civil aviation, including through the mechanism of public-private partnership.
therefore, the central and local executive bodies must monitor the performance of work within the established time frame, "A. smailov summed up.
there, small and medium-sized businesses can receive preferential interest funding for the opening of campsites, hotels, theme parks, ski resorts.
The Ministry of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan is responsible for the index "international trade" in the ranking "doing business."
In addition, the enterprise provides training and training in the dual training system.
Akmola has great potential to increase the share of tourism in the economy.
Prime Minister Askar Mamin visited a number of systemically forming enterprises in Rudnoy in the afternoon, including Sokolov-Sarybay Mining and Processing Production Association, an ore cement plant, a milk processing and dairy production enterprise Leader-2010 LLP.
In addition, in the message, the head of state noted that in order to increase the effectiveness of the work of civil servants, it is necessary to attract young specialists with skills to their number.
large-scale work will be carried out to modernize social facilities.
In 2017-2019, good results were achieved in the implementation of the state program "Labor."
the party, as the leading political force of the country, must ensure the continuity of the strategic course of development of our state.
At a conference meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, ways to implement a pilot project to increase the incomes of residents of Zhambyl region by supporting personal subsidiary farms in villages were considered.
According to Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Kairbek Rostenbayev, daily monitoring of houses and monitoring of construction progress is carried out.
After hearing the information provided, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the party plays a special role in the development of the country and improving the well-being of the people.
in addition, special attention will be paid to ensuring transparency and targeting of social assistance, setting common standards for guaranteed levels of social support.
This year, the construction of a national cancer center began, where it is planned to introduce advanced technologies for the treatment and diagnosis of cancer.
The meeting of the Council on Improving the Investment Climate chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin discussed issues of developing the competitive environment in the economy of Kazakhstan in accordance with the requirements of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev visited a number of sports and medical facilities in Nur-Sultan today as part of the implementation of the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan Tokayev.
One of the important stages of Kazakh-German relations is the opening and active work of such structures as the intergovernmental working group on trade and economic cooperation as an informal platform for representatives of political, economic and expert circles of Kazakhstan and Germany, the Kazakh-German business council on strategic cooperation, as well as the Berlin Eurasian club.
Turkestan Airport Construction Project
in the hospital it is planned to open oncological and cardiological departments, a perinatal center, an emergency medical station, etc.
the academy of public administration will develop programs "leader of a new formation," "leader of a new formation," etc., "said the deputy chairman of the agency.
agro-firm uses digital technologies for milking and keeping cows, wind power plants and other advanced technological systems.
Whereas in the previous period until 2015, the main project on the republican line was the Western European-Western Chinese transit corridor and, on average, 2 thousand km of roads were covered by reconstruction work per year, in 2015-2019 6.8 thousand km of roads were covered, and 4.4 thousand km of roads were carried out over the past year.
the leading place among Kazakh universities in the ranking was taken by al-Farabi mining - 207 place (top 300).
with an average yield of 12.6 c/ha, 19.1 million tons of grain were added.
negotiations with the vice-chairman of the Marubeni yamazoe corporation were devoted to the further development of the agro-industrial complex, energy, and disgusting cooperation.
With regard to norms imposing additional duties on business and citizens, a "transition period" is provided.
however, the decorative images of animals devoid of the original magical meaning remained in use in jewelry, miniature books, wooden, stone and bone dialects, architecture, in a more assembled form, taking the form of stylized ornamental, jewelry elements.
sales for 5 months increased by 7.5%.
During the Government meeting, draft resolutions on amendments and additions to the republican budget for 2019-2021 and the State Employment Program "Labor" and the development of mass entrepreneurship for 2017-2021 were adopted, aimed at expanding microcredit funds, allocating grants, short-term training and training in the basics of entrepreneurship.
In an interview, Chairman of the Road Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Sayranbek Barmakov spoke about the ongoing work to improve local roads.
this will enable villagers to benefit from e-government services and services, health services and knowledge, the benefits of e-commerce, and a massive transition to new standards of living.
During the meeting, the Minister called on WTO member countries to join efforts to solve problematic issues related to the full-fledged activities of the organization and achieve concrete substantive results.
The Prime Minister instructed the Ministry of Finance to take all necessary measures for the qualitative implementation of the budget revenue plan with a focus on control in high-risk areas.
The Prime Ministers of the two countries discussed topical issues of strategic partnership and prospects for further strengthening trade, economic, investment and interregional cooperation.
Following the visit, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting of the government commission on the elimination of the consequences of emergency situations in the city of Arys.
In turn, the heads of diplomatic missions noted the positive dynamics of work to create favorable conditions for doing business in Kazakhstan.
The Head of Government noted the importance of the EBRD's participation in the implementation of a major project in the field of public-private partnership in Kazakhstan - the large Almaty ring road.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan noted the need to create favorable conditions for attracting investment in the countries of the region, including using the opportunities of existing agreements on the international financial center "Capital" and free trade zones.
This year, the coverage of employment measures, including through short-term vocational training under the "start-up business" and "young entrepreneur" programs, will increase by 4 times and amount to more than 300 thousand people.
Currently, all the necessary tools are available to maintain prices for the goods. today , there are all the necessary tools to curb rising prices .
3 kindergartens, 6 schools, 5 health facilities.
Regarding the development of the automotive industry, the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan announced the growth of the automotive industry by 46% in the five months of this year.
In addition, new opportunities for the use of land and livestock will arise for rural residents.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev and Tokayev pay special attention to the development of the Karaganda region.
Since the beginning of the year, more than 700 new jobs have been created in the region in 30, of which one in three is worth.
the main functions of this organization are technical control and supervision of airlines and aircraft, training of personnel in accordance with icao standards.
The Kazakh delegation also included the first President of Kazakhstan - Executive Director of the Fund of the Head of State Aset Issekeshev and Minister of Education and Science Asat Aimagambetov.
It is important that the state revenue authorities and akimats ensure the phased implementation by micro- and small business entities of the completeness of the use of online cash registers, pos-terminals, simplified calculation of income and expenses, "said A. Mamin.
12.3 billion tenge will be additionally allocated for these purposes.
He also noted the impractical work of secondary specialized educational institutions in the country.
akim of North Kazakhstan region of Aksakalov, akim of Zhambyl region a. Myrzakhmetov reported on work in the regions.
3.7 billion tenge for procurement interventions in the account of social and entrepreneurial corporations.
B. According to nurymbetov, in this way the current mechanism of targeted social assistance will be adjusted.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. He expressed confidence that the sultans will justify the great confidence of the head of state and ensure the qualitative fulfillment of important tasks facing the new ministry.
creating new jobs in order to create conditions for adapting the labor market to external and internal challenges, ensuring high-quality training of personnel taking into account the implementation of new investment projects, an electronic labor exchange with the establishment of employment indicators, measures for the further development of employment centers, and measures should be taken to attract private employment agencies.
in addition, b. Sultanov spoke about alternative price containment mechanisms that do not require significant funds from the budget.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a business training for project participants at the training center "young entrepreneur" on training in the basics of entrepreneurship.
this principle is planned to be implemented in Almaty.
in the area of ​ ​ the city of the same name with the participation of a. The specialist launched the second line of the plant "bio operations" - a workshop for the production of starch and glue.
however, the decorative images of animals devoid of the original magical meaning remained in use in jewelry, miniature books, wooden, stone and bone dialects, architecture, in a more assembled form, taking the form of stylized ornamental, jewelry elements.
Another thing is that in each such settlement there are schools, children who begin to understand its meaning using the example of power plants. in each such settlement there is a school , children who , by the example of these power plants , begin to understand what it is .
expenses of the republican budget were spent by 4.9 trillion tenge.
the average amount of loans issued is 3.3 million tenge.
The goal is to expand microcredit, grant, short-term education and entrepreneurship training.
in turn, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan R. sklyar noted that the new program "Nұrly zhol" will cover all aspects of the further development of the transport and logistics industry.
The opening of modern production of energy-efficient tractors in Kazakhstan "Kirovets" corresponds to the development strategy of the domestic engineering industry.
also visited the buildings of the Kazakh Drama Theater, the wedding palace, as well as a park with attractions, a music fountain and an amphitheater.
Agreement between the Kazakh company k-agro and the Dutch companies "farm frites" on the creation of a joint venture for the production of French fries in the Zhambyl region.
Interview on tourism development in Kazakhstan: what interests foreigners and which region leads in ecotourism
In turn, in some akimats there is a decrease in a number of indicators, "A. Mamin said.
regional inequalities are being reduced.
In the city of Arys, Turkestan region, to provide assistance to victims, you can contact the Turkestan Corporate Social Development Fund, opened at the Governor's Office of the region.
Currently, 3,477 villages with development potential are selected, including 2,327 satellite villages, which include 1,150 support and 200 border villages.
Therefore, we must make every effort to fulfill our promises, "the head of state said.
the adoption of the law reduced pressure on business, reduced the number of administrative barriers and reduced the burden of state bodies on excess functions, and also created the most normal conditions for the development of entrepreneurship.
The health and social protection authorities are responsible for carrying out the necessary checks and solving this problem within the framework of the current legislation.
Until August 20, after the conclusion of an agreement between banks, microfinance organizations and the problem loan fund to reimburse part of the written off fines and penalties, KPC reimburses banks and microfinance organizations for 30% of overdue debts on fines and penalties.
they must be ready by the end of this year.
their number increases every day (7037 per day).
he noted that the proposed agricultural susbidization products are a common product resulting from the exchange of views, thinking, brainstorming of government and business.
The Act Amending and Supplementing Certain Oath Laws provides for all necessary legislative changes.
On the same day, the Head of Government of Kazakhstan held a meeting on the development of the border areas of Almaty and the adjacent territory of Almaty region.
to do this, the government will take measures to improve the quality of the current tax system, which encourages companies to invest in human capital, increase productivity, technical re-equipment, exports.
An open-air archaeological site will also visit a settled town under the protection of UNESCO.
Despite the seasonal decline in prices for fruits and vegetables, deflationary processes characteristic of the summer period are not observed, "said E. Dossaev.
Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly, Minister of Tourism, Art and Culture of Malaysia datuk Mohamaddin bin ketapi, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Malaysia bulat imanbayev, Director General of the Department of Malaysian Museums kamarul baharin bin qasim attended the opening ceremony.
project head of state. regional programs for the development of territories in areas, cities and regions developed on the instructions of Nazarbayev and the president.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. During the summit, chaired by Nazarbayev, a historic convention on the legal status of the Caspian Sea was signed.
this will improve the material well-being of citizens.
In general, the pilot project was carried out at a high level in Karaganda region. in general , we can say that in the karaganda region the pilot project was carried out at a high level .
for the first time, the law clearly states that a teacher must teach and educate children. for the first time , the law clearly states that a teacher should educate children .
Reports of Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan A. Aimagambetov, as well as akim of Turkestan region were heard.
another social efficiency - taxes to the regions.
this is mainly ensured by taxes.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan stated the need to involve the national chambers of entrepreneurs in the implementation of the program of multilateral trade and economic cooperation of the Shu member states, and also noted the importance of developing a single list of Shu investment projects for promotion in the contacts of the Shu secretariat with international financial institutions.
similar work began with the akimats of Almaty and Pavlodar region.
in turn, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B. Saparbayev noted that it is necessary to pay great attention to the work on explaining the norms of the new law aimed at creating conditions for increasing the competitiveness of teachers.
every Kazakhstani should know how this system works, how to get medical care, especially in rural areas.
The Kazakh delegation, consisting of representatives of the main state bodies and quasi-state companies, was headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Roman Sklyar.
foreign guests.
the entire rural population will be provided with quality drinking water.
milk production amounted to 5.7 million tons.
Taking into account the introduced risk-oriented supervision and asset quality assessment, new approaches will be implemented to ensure the development and stability of the banking system of Kazakhstan.
In order to develop the potential of young people, projects are being implemented "young entrepreneur," "young specialist."
In an interview, Deputy Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aibek Alganov spoke about the development of the transit air transportation industry.
The prime minister noted that the new state program of "Nrla zher" will allow each Kazakhstan citizen to resolve a housing issue on the level of income.
for mothers with many children and owners of the "golden college," "silver college" and who received the title "mother heroine."
in general, awareness-raising on the health rights of the population, the list of free medical services and the provision of medicines will be strengthened.
in many villages, education and health facilities.
As you know, young people are participants in the volunteer movement, so this is very important.
a package of measures has been adopted to improve the quality of the loan portfolio and improve stopped projects.
and also a. smailov reported on the ongoing work on state audit and chamber control.
Following the negotiations with the heads of government of the two countries, a number of the following documents include:
expansion and strengthening of effective measures for employment, support of low-income, large families and youth.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. On the instructions of Nazarbayev, in a message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 10, 2018, a new model of a guaranteed amount of free medical care (GOBMP) and a package of medical care in the system of compulsory social medical insurance (mms) was developed.
Therefore, if a license is adopted, the volume of export of scrap metal abroad will be slightly reduced, "said alikhan smailov.
in Kazakhstan, white ptz products are widespread.
The Minister of Energy of Nogayev, Akim of Mangistau Region s. Turymov and Akim of West Kazakhstan Region reported on the work carried out in this direction.
Also during the speech, the issues of implementing state programs, increasing investments in fixed assets, approving a comprehensive plan for the development and privatization of small and medium-sized businesses were touched upon.
The main theme of the forum is the development of transcontinental transport links.
control is carried out by akimat.
Within the framework of the Roadmap for the restoration of the textile cluster of the city of Shymkent, it is planned to introduce two additional factories, which will increase the volume of processed cotton in Kazakhstan by 2 times and amount to 800 new jobs.
it is also planned to increase the number of private schools.
Today, the green agenda is one of the relevant topics not only in Kazakhstan, but also in the world.
the share in the republican volume of wool is 3.4%.
parents should raise their children consciously, pay great attention to their moral, moral growth, "he said.
Prime Minister Askar Mama met with the Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of China (bhnj) li zhanshun on the site of the Capital International Financial Center (ahko).
We will carefully monitor this so that young people, representatives of public organizations, the deputy corps are part of the commission in order to ensure the completeness of decision-making on the basis of all submitted documents when considering these applications and prevent corruption incidents, "said kozhakhmet.
here special attention is paid to the topic "with a diploma in the village!" We need to transfer to the program, because medicine, first of all, in rural areas.
In his message, the head of state emphasized that effective public dialogue and prompt response to the needs of people are the main priority in the work of state bodies. the head of state in his address emphasized that effective public dialogue and prompt response to the needs of people are the main priorities in the activities of state bodies .
The Chairman of the Board of Kazakhtelecom expressed confidence that by the end of 2019 broadband Internet will be available in 841 state institutions in 279 settlements.
According to its results, a set of proposals will be developed to improve legislative acts, "said Abdykalikova.
The head of government got acquainted with the work of gas processing enterprises in the Baigan and Mughalzhar regions, in particular, visited the Gas Processing Company LLP, the white-stone gas processing plant "Snps-Aktobemunaigas."
a special commission had been set up to deal with that situation.
monthly inflation in August was 0.2%.
Federation of Trade Unions:
On December 2 this year, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan received a delegation headed by Chairman of the Central Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan Abdullah al-Saud.
In order to further improve operations, it is proposed to convert all procedures into electronic format. in order to further improve ppp , it is proposed to transfer all procedures to electronic format .
The head of state paid special attention to the issues of working conditions and remuneration of employees of foreign companies.
in Zhambyl district, the head of government visited the empirefood meat processing plant, in the Karasai district - the hamle confectionery plant.
The main purpose of the visit to the southern region is to explain the main tasks of the head of state's message to the people of Kazakhstan, hold meetings with the population, familiarize themselves with the socio-economic development of the region, and solve urgent problems of citizens.
On behalf of the head of state, the government developed a package of operational measures to quickly solve the most pressing social problems of the population and improve the well-being of the population.
The meeting of the commission was held with the participation of heads of state bodies and representatives of business communities of the two countries.
The total volume of container traffic through Kazakhstan increased by 38.4% compared to the previous year and amounted to 351.6 thousand dollars.
since this year, the championship has been held 4 times a year for those wishing to enter on a paid basis.
At the meeting of the Council on Improving the Investment Climate chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, issues of Kazakhstan's membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO) were considered.
Further, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the state of the al-Farabi monument located on the square in the district center.
in addition, there are great prospects for the transformation of Kazakhstan into the main trading partner of Tajikistan.
Representatives of organizations that are actively involved in the water supply and sanitation sector also spoke during the consideration of the issue.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan R. sklyar, chairman of Baiterek Holding a. Aripkhanov, akim of Mangistau region with. Turymov, deputy akim of Turkestan region of Aitmukhametov, deputy akim of Almaty region with.
in Kazakhstan there are 83 power facilities with an installed capacity of 936.8 MW, of which 18 are wind, 27 are solar, 35 are hydroelectric power plants and 3 are bioelectric power plants.
to do this, applicants must write an essay and present their socially significant projects.
The holding of the republican environmental hour is a joint initiative of the Ministries of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Education and Science, the Fund for the Development of Socially Significant Initiatives and the Association of Environmental Organizations.
our citizens should know that all those in need of help - low-income, large families and children are under the protection of the state and will remain. our citizens should know that all who need help , these are low-income families , large families , and children , have been and will remain under state protection .
According to the results of the vote, the deputies of the maslikhat unanimously supported the candidacy of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The meeting participants made proposals to support young entrepreneurs, their startups and initiatives.
in addition, as part of the gasification of the country, the government will ensure the timely completion of the Saryarka gas pipeline.
coof implements education, health and socio-economic development programmes to comprehensively address rural poverty, mainly working with children and young people.
young people told the deputy prime minister about their first successes.
based on this, all international rating agencies confirmed Kazakhstan's credit rating at the level of investment attractiveness.
One of the effective tools to reduce the share of the shadow economy is the digitalization of tax and customs administration.
dynamics of key indicators in civil aviation. the dynamics of the main indicators in civil aviation are showing growth .
work on the proposal of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region "and expand the pilot project on large-scale and effective increase of incomes of residents of Zhambyl region through preferential lending to small farms, including personal subsidiary farms. Kurmans.
innovations correspond to the previously adopted state program for the development of the treasure for 2017-2021.
in the regional center - in the city of Uralsk to the enterprises of the food, furniture, construction and processing industries - "Zhelaev bakery, Kubley cannery," "educational and scientific complex of experimental and industrial production of aquaculture," quant "factory for the production of body furniture, housing and construction plant" future-t, "Ural transformer plant, porridge processing and cutting center."
We must do everything possible for citizens to implement their entrepreneurial initiatives, easily obtain loans, and conduct family business.
New tools for price maintenance have been developed.
you should constructively raise relevant issues and propose concrete solutions with the participation of the public, "said the party chairman.
A new modern complex of the Embassy of Belarus with an ethnic image and wide functionality is located in a dynamically developing area of ​ ​ the city, 9 Koshkarbaev Street, nearby are embassies of other countries, convention, educational, cultural and entertainment institutions, service and food enterprises.
the total area of ​ ​ the cultural center is 9.5 thousand square meters.
The head of government called on Turkish businessmen to contribute to the modernization and development of the city of Turkestan as the cultural and spiritual center of the Turkic world.
Deputy Prime Minister told teachers about measures to implement the tasks set by the president in the message, drew attention to large-scale work to support the field of education, protect the rights of teachers and increase wages.
this type of employment often leads to violations of workers' labour rights. this form of employment often leads to violations of the labor rights of workers .
In March this year, the information system was launched in testing mode at all airports of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of Kazakhstani airlines.
During a working trip to the Karaganda region, Askar Mama took part in the opening of a plant for the production of ferroalloys, visited a number of enterprises of the mining and processing complex.
31 objects are at auction.
how points are calculated:
Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Yermekbayev, Minister of Internal Affairs e. turgumbayev, Minister of Health e. Minister of Education and Science a. Aimagambetov, First Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Shukeev, Chairman of the Board of the Real Estate Fund Samruk-kazyna b. sandykbaev, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Atameken NPP with reports on the areas he oversees.
Construction work began in July this year, will be completed in May 2020.
In addition, it is proposed to pay special attention to the exchange of experience in organizing work on interaction between chambers and business, developing cooperation at the regional level, strengthening cooperative ties between enterprises of Kazakhstan and Russia, including for entering the markets of third countries.
improving the social situation of the population and the quality of life. it is necessary to focus on improving the social conditions and quality of life of the population .
To reduce the burden on the budget, most attention is paid to private investment and public-private partnerships. to reduce the burden on the budget , emphasis has been placed on private investment and public-private partnership .
mineral resources of the deposit amount to 1.7 billion tons.
central and local authorities in November should develop preliminary public procurement plans for the implementation of the republican budget for 2020-2022.
Considering today's discussions, it is necessary to take concrete measures to qualitatively fulfill the tasks assigned to us, "said A. Mamin.
all construction materials are allocated from the state material fund.
At the same time, support is needed not only from the state, but also from sponsors who have financial capabilities to provide assistance and support to cancer patients, "the Deputy Prime Minister concluded.
previously, funds from the republican budget were allocated for their maintenance.
together - during the ecological subbotnik, within the framework of a purely Kazakh republican environmental action, the banks of the Yesil and Karasu rivers, the Vyacheslav reservoir and Lake Maybal were cleared.
- raising the status of teachers and stimulating them. "
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister held a meeting in Shymkent akimat on issues of social and labor sphere and introduction of compulsory social health insurance.
Deputy Director of the East Kazakhstan Regional Branch of Kazavtodor Olzhas Akhmetov noted that during the reconstruction of the corridors of two major corridors - Taldykorgan - Kalbatau - overgrowth and Kalbatau - Maykapshagai - residents of nearby villages, villages and cities are attracted to the border of the People's Republic of China.
tools have been optimized.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance, the priority task of this stage is the effective and full implementation of budget funds.
To date, 101 of 235 planned integrations have been implemented.
all forces are now involved in their restoration.
young specialists need to create all the conditions, starting from housing and wages, "he said. Saparbayev drew attention to the leadership of the region.
work on individual housing construction and multi-storey residential buildings is carried out at 4664 facilities.
Youth working in accordance with the law refers to everyone who works after graduation, college, university. according to the law , working youth are all those who work - after school , after college , after high school .
business participation in the tourism sector at the level of small and medium-sized businesses. the participation of business in the tourism sector is just at the level of small and medium-sized businesses .
In addition, as part of the working trip, the Prime Minister got acquainted with the work of large enterprises in the construction and textile industry of the region - the house-building plant of Kostanay-mbi LLP and the Bolshevichka production cooperative.
The given results indicate the correctness of the strategy of the state revenue bodies aimed at improving fiscal administration, "said A. smailov.
During the meeting, a number of important issues related to the further development of the Eurasian Economic Union were considered.
B. Speaking about the provision of targeted social assistance, Saparbayev also noted that the provision of support should not lead to a surge in talent.
The main result of the program will be to improve the well-being of citizens living in cities, district centers and villages, "concluded R. Dalenov.
Specialists of the Department of Internal Affairs, headed by First Vice Minister Kairbek Rostenbayev, daily monitor houses and monitor the progress of construction in the city of Lviv.
Construction is monitored and monitored by the First Vice-Minister of the Ministry.
the issue of timeliness of payments also needed to be addressed.
According to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, wool growth in January-October accelerated by 4.4%.
The President of Kazakhstan K. Tokayev in the message "constructive public dialogue - the basis of stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" instructed the government to ensure the full and high-quality implementation of the Nұrly Zhol program.
All regions of the country, as well as cities of republican significance, contribute to the restoration of the Arysian city.
During a meeting with the chief executive officer of one web a. Shtekel discussed the prospects for the implementation of the project to cover the territory of Kazakhstan, including remote and inaccessible areas with broadband Internet with a mass speed of satellite communications.
the portal does not allow purchases of these goods in another way to customers, and also requires an industrial certificate and st-kz certificate from the supplier in automatic mode, "said A. smailov.
since these are regions remote from large cities, each workplace created in these places is of great importance, "said A. Sospanova.
cooperation with the chevron is carried out on maritime, Karachay projects and projects for the expansion of the Caspian pipeline consortium.
in addition, measures are envisaged to increase teachers' salaries, increase work leave, surcharges for pedagogical skills, mentoring.
On the work carried out in this direction Deputy Prime Minister R. Sklyar, on the state of affairs in the regions akim of Almaty region a. Batalov, akim of East Kazakhstan region, akim of akmola region e. Margykpaev.
a. Mother's first president is the head of state. visiting the Nazarbayev monument, laid a wreath at the ataturik mausoleum and laid flowers at the monument. Together with Erdogan, trees were planted as part of the environmental campaign "Breathe into the Future" in Turkey.
it is planned to ensure growth through the growth of the market for electronic commerce and transit mail parcels from China and Southeast Asia to Europe, "said Kassymbek.
in all sectors of this sector there is an acceleration of dynamics.
Today there are a number of problems in information and mass work: inefficient use of communication channels; Public authorities explain their work in a formal manner; Lack of public participation in decision-making.
Measures for providing with drinking water in the new program of "Nrla zher" consider the priorities of regional policy determined by the "aul-a country cradle" project.
the total volume of copper on ore is 5.8 million tons.
The Prime Minister was informed that the restoration of the station will be completed by the end of next week.
Our interaction is evolving both bilaterally and within the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
the maximum available loan amount is 2.5 billion tenge.
According to official statistics, this year the share of the population with incomes below the subsistence level in the Zhambyl region was 5.4%, which is 1.3% higher than the republican level (4.1%).
in addition, more than 100 new jobs will be created.
a dual education system is provided for the training of personnel.
The Coordinating Council for Attracting Investment will consider the implementation of all investment projects.
During a visit to small and medium-sized businesses in the city, the head of government was informed that 509 out of 536 business entities needed to be restored.
this is a strategic project that will modernize all transport infrastructure.
after gaining independence, I considered Turkestan as the capital. since independence , i have been thinking of turkistan as a capital .
To achieve this rating, the country needs to diversify the structure of the economy, improve the banking sector, and strengthen fiscal discipline.
therefore, they need to be actively used, "- summed up r. dalenov.
therefore, we have a shortage of personnel everywhere, "said B. Saparbayev.
By the end of the year, the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2020-2025 will be adopted, which will be aimed at further improving the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry.
I will emphasize once again that the work of regional leaders to achieve these planned indicators will be evaluated, "summed up A. Mamin.
government working group held a meeting with the public of Pavlodar region.
The task set for us is to cover 1250 rural settlements, where 3,718 budget institutions are located, "said K. Yesekeev.
the project provides for the creation of a single database of applicants (through IP), where all records of their appeals to subjects will be stored.
youth are the driving force of society. the driving force of society is youth .
Thanks to the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program, Kazakhstan has become a transcontinental bridge between Europe and Asia, and mass modernization of transport infrastructure is underway.
additional jobs will also be created.
During the implementation of the agreement, more than 2.5 thousand new highly qualified jobs will be created.
The total volume of investments in the project, implemented in three stages, will amount to 7.3 billion tenge, in production it is planned to create about 500 new jobs and 700 jobs in related industries.
the new ferroalloy plant will become one of the main enterprises of the metallurgical industry and will make a positive contribution to the socio-economic development of not only the region, but also the country as a whole.
a visa-free regime has been established between the countries, in the near future it is planned to open direct flights between the nur-sultan and income.
During the meeting, a draft plan of activities for the preparation and conduct of the interregional forum was considered.
the lion of Muhammadiuls is an experienced leader. arystanbek mukhamediuly is a leader with great experience .
In addition, in order to prevent a liquidity deficit, the regions need to ensure early repayment of previously issued bonds totaling 8.3 billion tenge in the IV quarter, "the head of the holding said.
Wacheningen University is one of the world's leading centers in the field of natural sciences, natural resource management, crop production and animal husbandry;
In order to maximize the coverage of children in need of assistance, mobile points will be organized, as well as mobile groups with the involvement of volunteers, "said A. Aimagambetov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was provided with information about the legacy of Expo 2017 and the measures taken to develop the ahko legal system.
ensure unconditional execution of the instructions of the head of state and the head of state to connect high-speed Internet in rural areas. it is necessary to ensure the unconditional fulfillment of the orders of elbasy and the head of state on conducting high-speed internet in the countryside .
Askar Mama called on the ambassadors of the European Union to further open and active dialogue on integration into the economic cooperation of Kazakhstan with the EU.
including the removal of all restrictions on regular passenger flights by Kazakhstani airlines in domestic directions, launch of the first national low-cost airline, optimization of the supply chain of aircraft fuel from the direct producer to the end user, in the city of Nur-Sultan, the introduction of an "open sky" regime, giving all foreign airlines a fifth freedom of air to fly to leading financial centers, implementation of world standards of aircraft and passenger service at airports, work to increase transit passenger traffic.
Recall that the international forum "Transit Potential of the Eurasian Continent" is being held these days in the capital of Armenia - Yerevan within the framework of the EEC.
In Pavlodar, the head of government visited one of the country's production of methyl tert-butyl ether and polypropylene - Nefexim ltd LLP, as well as an advanced data processing center (dno) equipped with servers for processing and storing data of Kazakhtelecom JSC.
in addition, Kazakhstan offers the best conditions for doing business and is interested in conducting trades, attracting French partners who are ready to invest in the creation of competitive industries focused on exports with high added value.
In addition, the Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources noted that for the further development of the subsoil in the country, the placement of small generation developed by the Ministry of Energy will be supported, in particular, support for the addition to the legislation regarding the domestic use of renewable energy sources, which will reduce the energy intensity of the country's housing and communal services.
in order to develop investment potential, it was instructed to ensure the construction of new industrial zones "star" and "Shymkent agro," to ensure an increase in the territory of the "southern" region.
in addition, during the visit, the issue of transferring a land plot from Nazarbayev University to republican property for the construction of a new scientific cancer center was considered.
in particular, Almaty signed an agreement with Magnum LLC for 1.5 billion tenge, but regional rules have not yet been approved, which jeopardizes the work of the akimat to stabilize prices.
As of August 20 of this year, 7056 private and apartment buildings have been restored in the city of arys.
in Turkestan, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening ceremony of a new bus station, the capacity of which is about 600 buses per day along various routes.
Now we plan to exclude subsidies for cattle meat, eggs, kumys and shubat, rice, cotton.
with full Kazakhstan localization, the project is implemented by the holding bi group, the head of which a. Rahumbayev held a presentation.
and also a. smailov spoke about the adoption of the law "On Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy" in a new version using the best practices of the OECD countries.
The Prime Minister instructed the heads of regions and ministries Nazarbayev and Tokayev to intensify work to fulfill the tasks set, as well as stimulate the growth of important industrial indicators.
especially in rural areas - 6.7%.
For 5 months, the growth was 8.8%.
the test is aimed at identifying the applicant's abilities to work with complex information.
the second is licensing.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan called on the governments of the EAEU member states within the framework of the Road Map to create conditions for the development of digital trade in the Eurasian Economic Union to stimulate the export of goods and services to third countries and pay special attention to the development of digital trade channels.
lack of seeds.
The funds raised will be used to provide humanitarian assistance to residents of the city of arys, Turkestan region, including temporary accommodation, provision of kitchen, clothing, and restoration of social infrastructure.
The Prime Minister also visited the Begagan field and the artificial island d, where primary separation is carried out with oil production and its subsequent transportation through pipelines to the future plant.
European Union countries own more than half of foreign direct investment in Kazakhstan.
intangible incentives - reducing the burden on teachers, guaranteeing the protection of honor and dignity, providing children teachers with priority places in kindergartens, approving the state award "Honored Teacher of Kazakhstan."
In addition, at present, with the participation of foreign investors, about 30 large investment projects are being implemented for a total amount of more than $3 billion.
Natural gas production is expected to exceed 55 billion cubic meters this year.
we take maximum measures to reduce mortality from cancer. we are taking maximum measures in order to reduce mortality from cancer .
According to A. Algeranov, new players appear in the civil aviation sector of Kazakhstan, routes are opened, competition is created to reduce the cost of air tickets.
based on the results of the tests, the possibilities of using technology for the digitalization of the Internet of things, telemedicine, industry and the development of smart cities will be analyzed.
therefore, we propose that the district commissions increase the period from three to seven days to conduct an examination of the material situation of the family and imprisonment, "the minister said.
The President signed a decree on measures to reduce the debt burden on low-income citizens, "the Prime Minister said.
Mayor of Almaty b. sagintayev, deputy akim of Almaty on development projects of the city.
investment dynamics are higher than growth. the dynamics of investment outpaced gdp growth .
During a visit to the head office of valmont industries, the head of government got acquainted with the production facilities and technological process of the enterprise.
the following key factors contributed to this: an increase in export customs tax rates and an increase in the production of goods and services in a number of industries, "said A. smailov.
Switzerland is one of the top ten trading partners and the top three investors in Kazakhstan.
engineering center will allow to train high-level specialists for various industries in Kazakhstan.
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of maintaining the political leadership of the party.
The Prime Minister noted the promising implementation of projects of large American companies in the agro-industrial sector and noted the possibility of organizing production in Kazakhstan with access to the region's markets.
this will increase the transport potential of the city.
The Head of Government reported on the 25th meeting of the CIS Coordinating Council on Informatization at the Regional Community in the Field of Communications (September 16-17, 2019, Nur-Sultan), as well as on preparations for the world radio communication conference, which will open in the Egyptian sharm el-sheikh at the end of October this year.
Following the results of the working trip, Berdybek Saparbayev set a number of tasks for the Ministry of Health and the Mayor's Office of the city, noting that the execution of the instructions of the head of state is under special control of the government.
it should become the leading financial center of the region, "said A. Mamin.
To achieve the annual plan, these akimats must intensify work. to fulfill the obligations to achieve the annual plan , these akimats need to intensify their work .
As a result, 3.5 thousand villages with development potential were selected.
The head of government noted that as a result of state support and zeroing of taxpayers' debts, blocked bank accounts were opened and restrictions on the use of property were lifted, which will allow continuing to conduct entrepreneurial activities.
aak is temporary support. the assistance is temporary support .
after the submission of documents, since November residential buildings in the cities of Nur-Sultan, Almaty and Shymkent have been allocated.
on the state of the economy for 8 months of this year, Dalenov noted that in August the country's economy remained stable.
During the meeting, other issues were discussed, such as strengthening public harmony with the population, supporting motherhood and childhood, improving the quality of services in the field of health and social protection, and developing culture and sports.
In this regard, I urge to support the initiative of the Nұr Otan party to raise funds to help residents of the city of arys, "said Askar Mama.
the president of the greedy and generous Tokai pays special attention to this.
after a press conference, a group of professionals went on a thirteen-day expedition to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
The Prime Minister instructed to work out issues on the implementation of structured projects with ahko law and the application of its jurisdiction in order to develop investment activity in the regions.
in the manufacturing industry, growth was 3.3%.
work is carried out both during the day and at night.
In the near future, new flights from the Nur-Sultan to the cities of Pavlodar, Semipalatinsk and Shymkent will be opened at a ticket price of 5999 tenge.
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was informed about the implementation of the roadmap for the construction of a new scientific oncology center and familiarized with the design scheme of the building.
reduction of customs fees for the declaration (from 19,000 tenge for the main sheet of the declaration and from 7,000 tenge to 20,000 tenge for the additional sheet) (November 2018).
goes to work for a month, after the receipt of deductions brings paper and thereby closes the question.
how we can surprise them, we need to think about it, "Saparbayev concluded.
The implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" is under the personal control of the head of state.
The investment holding got acquainted with the advantages of investments in the country's economy and expressed interest in the practical implementation of joint projects.
The Head of Government visited the Spring-1 and Spring-2 housing estates, where apartment buildings and private buildings are located, examined the infected local school, the city hospital and public service buildings.
The Head of Government noted that currently a project for the construction of group water pipelines worth 4.5 billion tenge has been developed, which will solve the issue of water supply to the region, which arises before the end of next year.
In order to reduce prices for air tickets, the low-cost airline Flaristan was opened - an inexpensive airline, where since May of this year more than 450 thousand tickets have been sold, of which about 60% of thousands have been sold at minimum rates of up to 10 thousand tenge.
Askar Mama got acquainted with the development of renewable energy sources in Mangistau region, the construction and reconstruction of roads in the region.
tomorrow the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan will take part in the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu) member states.
To simplify and accelerate the integration of information systems, the Ministry is working on the creation of a single integration platform "smart bridge" based on the experience of Estonia, which will be launched in December this year.
here any businessman can receive services and consultations on the principle of "one window" - the management company "kazakh invest," "Pavlodar" aea, "JSC" Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs "Atameken" agricultural credit corporation, the agricultural financial support fund "Offices" and the Fund for Enterprise Development "Development" work on the same site.
there will be an opportunity to open new processing enterprises.
summing up the meeting, the ascar specialist noted that the Mangistau region is the western gateway of Kazakhstan and noted the need for further development of industry and the transport and logistics sector, tourism.
In this regard, I instruct the akims to ensure the completion of the planned repair work on time and deliver the necessary volumes of fuel in advance, "said A. Mamin.
a strong sholpankulov also reported on the ongoing work on state audit and camera control.
our main task is to improve roads, create a modernized infrastructure for storing goods, improve the quality of life of the population by quickly and conveniently crossing the border between the population and business entities, "concluded Vice Minister of Trade and Integration A. Askarula.
if this company suddenly goes bankrupt, then we will return the guarantees of this bank and restore the path to the amount of the bank guarantee, "he said. barmacs.
Managing Partner for Kazakhstan and Central Asia of the company "e" for the activities of joint working groups on the implementation of the investment policy of the Council of Foreign Investors on energy, ecology and the oil and gas industry, labor legislation, human capital development and attracting foreign labor. dossymbekov, managing director of agip caspian bi n. agent, director of knauf for sales and marketing in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan propp.
for example, if the farm uses fertilizers, acquires quality seeds, conducts chemical treatment in a timely manner, the yield is at least 7-8 centners per hectare.
In his message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted the importance of urbanization of the country and instructed to take effective measures to manage migration processes, "said A. Mamin.
We have seen mothers with 7-8 children earn their jobs through national crafts, many of which do not need targeted social assistance. today we are witnessing how mothers of 7-8 children , thanks to folk crafts , provide their families with their own labor , many of them do not even need targeted social assistance .
Currently, a number of regulations and systemic measures are being adopted under the "economy of simple things" program.
Now, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Asian Development Bank, we are actively working on new requirements for a wholesale distribution center, "B. sultanov said.
State assistance should be provided only to citizens in need.
Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev visited the region on a working trip.
In particular, as a result of the implementation of these measures, by the end of this year, more than 300 thousand unemployed will be covered by employment measures through vocational education under the "start-up business" and "young entrepreneur" programs.
in light industry due to an increase in textile production by 18.3%, clothing production by 5.4%, total production increased by 14.3%.
Mother's askar "audio locust" examined the solar power plant and got acquainted with the reconstructed highway of the northern and eastern bypasses of the city of Karaganda.
In total, there are 66 social facilities in the city, of which 62 should be overhauled, and 4 should be completely restored.
The Ministry of Finance will draft one bill.
To approve specific, open procedures and strengthen monitoring of targeted social assistance:
The project envisages measures of state support in the following areas: effective use of house plots for the development of crop production, livestock and poultry production, as well as effective use of land resources belonging to each rural population outside settlements; creation of a cooperative with the necessary equipment, equipment and working capital in each rural district.
the entire Kazakh public supports the development of Turkestan.
for example, the implementation of the Shymkent City project will allow the construction of 1.5 million square meters. m of housing with ready-made social infrastructure.
To ensure this volume, the level of investments in 2023 will be brought to 30% or up to 10 trillion tenge per year.
In his special speech, the head of government noted that the opening of the Lukoil plant in Kazakhstan, which invested $9.5 billion in the country's hydrocarbon sector, corresponds to the current vector of development of the country's oil and gas sector, in particular, the transition from a raw material focus to the production of deep processing products.
Commissions for the control of local content have been established in all regions under the chairmanship of deputy akims. commissions on control of local content under the chairmanship of deputy akims have been created in all regions .
In total, 33.5 thousand people are employed in the kamaz technological chain.
then we can achieve good results.
industrial production in January-July of this year increased by 2.7%.
Given the scale of the project and the issues of financing, we propose this year to start its implementation in one rural district of each district of the region. given the scale and issues of financing the project , this year we suggest launching its implementation in one rural district of each region of the region .
this is a bill aimed at developing physical culture and mass sports among all age groups, ensuring maximum accessibility of sports infrastructure for children.
the head of government visited the Karachaganak and Chinarevsk oil and gas condensate fields, where the "November Petroleum Opereiting B.V." and "Zhaiykmunai" took place.
not a single request, not a single complaint of citizens should remain unanswered, "Saparbayev emphasized.
Also during the meeting, the issues of ipo entry of the fund's companies and ensuring the effectiveness of procurement were discussed.
5.2 million tons of grain were added at an average yield of 11.5 c/ha.
The main thing is the updating of the status of the people. the main thing is updating the status of the population .
in this regard, it is proposed to introduce:
according to the conditions that we delivered to them, after the complete completion of the work, the warranty period comes. we set such conditions when they fully complete the work , the warranty period begins .
in the regional center, the Prime Minister visited the Aktobe ferroalloy plant, the largest in the world in the quality of chromium ores and the second place in the production and supply of kazchrome alloys.
By the end of the year, it is planned to summarize the results of the competition and conclude an agreement with the investor.
integration with the information systems of the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture is also planned.
foreign guests are interested in the history of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan and enjoy the culture of indigenous peoples living in this territory.
Prime Minister Askar Mama visited Turkestan region with a working trip to familiarize himself with the progress of reconstruction of affected houses, social facilities and engineering networks in the city of Arys.
in turn, about. He thanked the Abdykalikov for the informative conversation and noted the contribution of Kazakhstan at the global, regional levels.
increased efficiency of interaction in the Caspian Sea will have a positive impact on the development of coastal regions of Kazakhstan, transport and energy infrastructure, preservation of ecological balance and biodiversity, which is fully consistent with the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan Tokayev on the development of cooperation of Caspian countries.
The sides discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation in the investment and financial and banking sectors, including the opening of representative offices of Qatari banks under the jurisdiction of the capital international financial center (ahko).
The pilot project will be implemented as part of the State program "Labor" for 2017-2021.
optimization of tax types and digitization of tax administration. it is necessary to optimize the types of taxes and digitize tax administration .
to fully influence the pricing of socially significant food products, it is necessary to increase purchases of stabilization funds to 15-20% of the population's need, "B. sultanov explained.
Compared to 2018, the number of composite public services increased by 2 times.
The Health Insurance Fund for the Procurement of Medical Services is completing work in this direction.
Kazakhstan's position in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum improved from 59 to 55 places.
According to the results of 2018, 26 transport and logistics centers operate in the country, until 2022 it is additionally planned to build 14 transport and logistics centers with a total area of ​ ​ 1,067,065 square meters. m
all this will ensure real growth of the regional economy by 5.5% per year.
According to the organizers, the main goal of the project is to develop the potential of domestic and external tourism through a sequence of tourist facilities during the expedition, make proposals for improving infrastructure and creating new cross-border routes.
In the village of Novonikolskoye, Kyzylzhar district, the Prime Minister took part in the opening ceremony of a new road bridge over the Yesil River, which was built as part of a public-private partnership.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev reported on education issues.
in addition, after each selection in the automated system and on the website of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a list of those that have passed for the next period is published.
Currently, there are 2 thousand 200 enterprises attracting foreign labor, the share of Kazakhstanis in them is more than 96%.
70.5% of services are already automated.
This year Kazakhstan rose from 28th to 25th place in the ranking of ease of doing business of the World Bank "doing business."
I am glad that we managed to present you with the masterpieces of the great steppe, "said the director of the museum.
these measures will bring financial resources in a timely manner and achieve the planned construction volume this year.
for someone, sports is a way to expand their functional capabilities, improve health, and for unity - the opportunity to master professional sportsmanship. for some , sports is an opportunity to expand their functionality , improve health , for others , a chance to master professional sportsmanship .
To maintain the status of teachers, a bill on the status of a teacher has been developed, aimed at improving the prestige and professional development of teachers, and exemption from unusual functions.
Program participants can receive a loan at 7.1%.
in addition, great attention should be paid to the moral education of students, their business and labour involvement.
In Shymkent, the head of government took part in the opening ceremony of the joint venture of the Uzbek association of light industry enterprises "Investment Fund of Kazakhstan" and "alliance textile" - the Chamber of Commerce and Industry "alliance."
As part of a working trip to Mangistau region, the Prime Minister a. Mom took part in the ceremony of building a capsule at the construction site of a methanol and olefin plant.
the number of subjects increased from more than 400 thousand to 900 million 1.3.
railway and road access roads were built, buildings of the administrative complex were built.
During the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the enterprises for processing and enrichment of lead-silver ores of the Alaigyr deposit, for the production of cathode copper, as well as the mining and enrichment complex on the basis of the Koktaszhal deposit.
Another 1840 builders are restoring a social object.
a number of digital projects are being implemented, including capital-1 information systems, e-window, electronic invoices, virtual warehouse, risk management system, which optimizes the process, accelerates and increases the transparency of tax and customs operations.
According to him, Kazakhstan together with the Russian Federation introduced navigation seals at the borders in a pilot format, now it is planned to introduce them in a multilateral format in the EAEU countries, which will increase transit between them.
over-performance compared to the plan will be 1.3%.
in this regard, we created a separate Turkestan region.
it includes deputies of parliament b. zhumagulov, with. Abdrakhmanov, prominent writers and public figures. Suleimenov, R. S. Seisenbaev, heads of central state bodies, as well as representatives of the academic and creative community of the country.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan b. on measures to improve the well-being and ensure effective employment of Kazakhstanis.
this measure will significantly reduce the volume of garbage disposal at landfills. this measure will significantly reduce the amount of burial at landfills .
On July 18 this year, in the city of Nur-Sultan under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Abdykalikova, the first meeting of the State Commission for the preparation and holding in 2020 of the 175th anniversary of the birth of the great poet, educator of the Kazakh people was held.
Today, separate legislation has been created, about 70 rules for general application and financial regulation have been adopted, all the infrastructure necessary for the center has been prepared, and all ahko bodies and organizations have been created.
the largest growth in the manufacturing industry was achieved in light industry, mechanical engineering, beverage production and pharmaceuticals.
Thanks to the modernization of Kazakhstan's oil industry completed this year, the volume of aviation fuel production increased to 694 thousand tons or 1.8 times compared to 2018 production, the share of jet fuel imports in consumption will decrease from 60% in 2018 to 4% in 2019, the rest increased by 30%.
at the same time, air tickets will be sold at the minimum tariff in case of their preliminary acquisition (5-10 thousand tenge).
Rural youth will be involved in the projects to ensure rural employment and new skills.
32.8 billion tenge is provided for the construction and purchase of rental housing without redemption for waiting lists. for the construction and purchase of rental housing without redemption the local executive bodies provided 32.8 billion tenge to those in the waiting list .
if there is public agreement, there will be a positive outcome, well-being and prosperity. when there is public agreement , there will be a positive result , and well-being , and prosperity .
The main thing is the quality of construction work, the involvement of professional architects.
a. Abdullah thanked Kazakhstan for the humanitarian and other assistance provided, including through official assistance for the development of the economy and for assistance in training Afghan specialists in Kazakh universities, secondary special and professional educational institutions.
In 2019-2021, the construction of an international airport and entrances according to the construction mechanism is provided.
at a conference call of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the interim results of the startup business project and issues of local content in public procurement were considered.
In addition, according to the Minister, much attention is paid to measures to promote the employment of persons with disabilities.
in different years, he held the posts of chief specialist of Temirbank JSC, head of the department of the antimonopoly policy committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, director of the water transport department of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, director of the Rehabilitation International Commercial Sea Port, vice minister of transport and communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, executive secretary of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Minister of Energy, the shipment of diesel fuel from oil refineries for ashtun is carried out on a priority basis.
on measures taken to eliminate the consequences of the current situation and emergency situations, the Minister of Internal Affairs e. turgumbayev, Minister of Health e. Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population b. saparbayev, Minister of Education and Science a. Aimagambetov, Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources M. Myrzagaliyev, akim of Turkestan region Governor of Pavlodar region b. bakauov reported.
the figures of the reporting period show that there is every opportunity to end the current financial year at a high level, "said A. smailov.
According to the Minister of Finance, in the reporting period, 2,779 audit activities were carried out in order to prevent violations arising in the implementation of budget funds.
Within realization of orders of the Head of state, work on development of the program of "Nrla zher" concerning warm, water supply and water disposal of the population, modernization of the municipal sector and repair of houses is conducted.
7 product groups have been identified for export diversification.
Legislative amendments will be prepared for the further development of renewable energy sources.
In addition, the novel notes that new production has appeared in scalar countries, and Kazakhstan and Belarus can supply each other at competitive prices with high-quality processed products that meet international standards and have international quality certificates.
The investigation of the criminal case is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the legislation, does not interfere with the work, "said Saparbayev.
half of them will be created due to the implementation of new investment projects formed for 41.6 trillion tenge.
According to the results of the half-year, 36.8 billion tenge was transferred to the regions according to financing plans, of which 35.8 billion tenge or 96.1% was spent.
akims of regions, cities of republican importance and the capital form competitive commissions.
The Prime Minister noted the good performance of akimats of Kyzylorda, Pavlodar and Turkestan regions in the work to increase the share of Kazakh content in procurement.
At the end of November this year, a mobile application price scanner, developed in the pilot mode of bts digital LLP, will be launched in Karaganda.
One of the tools for fulfilling obligations is the rejection of the use of coal, the transition to renewable energy sources and the direction to reduce emissions of pollutants and the generation of production waste, "said M. Myrzagaliev.
the average sink size will be increased by 2.5 times, "said B. Nurymbetov.
preliminary estimates show acceleration in the third quarter. preliminary estimates indicate acceleration in the third quarter .
In his speech at the meeting, Roman Sklyar expressed confidence that the decisions taken will give an additional impetus to the development of bilateral relations in all areas of Kazakh-Belarusian cooperation, as well as once again show a high level of intensity of dialogue between Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus.
the hospital complex will be built on the site of 7 multidisciplinary, worn-out and separate facilities.
this direction should become one of the main economic tasks on the overall agenda of the eurozone.
according to the rating of the global competitiveness index, the ministry is responsible for the "infrastructure" factor.
all these measures are aimed at increasing the influence of universities in the scientific educational, technological and humanitarian space.
By the end of the year, the facility is planned to be commissioned.
During the harvest period, along with the spring heat, there were long precipitation (a total of 15-20 days), which affected both the quality and yield of grain.
In order to further quickly respond to citizens' applications, the Prime Minister instructed government members to regularly hold meetings with the population in the public reception rooms of the Nұr Otan party.
The sides discussed the development of investment and trade and economic cooperation, including the prospects for cooperation between the two countries in the Singapore format - after ratifying the free trade agreement signed on October 1 this year in Yerevan between the Eurasian Economic Union and Singapore.
On behalf of 3400 residents of the 195th quarter of the city of Shymkent, a school teacher addressed the public reception of the party "Nұr Otan."
The construction industry is one of the largest in terms of employment, 641.4 thousand people are employed here.
now we have worked through this issue at the order level, so commissions should be as transparent as possible with the involvement of the public. we have now worked on this issue at the order level so that the commissions are as open as possible with the involvement of the public .
The Prime Minister got acquainted with the construction of health and sports facilities in Pavlodar, including the regional oncological dispensary with 200 beds and a polyclinic for 100 visits per day, which is planned to be commissioned on December 1 of this year, as well as the sports town "Sport City," which includes an ice arena, football and indoor athletics arena, a preparation center for the Olympic reserve.
in this regard, the following main mechanisms are proposed: return of the quarterly procedure for the appointment of targeted social assistance and the appointment of conditional and unconditional assistance for three months, respectively.
at the same time, these investments can now take place under the jurisdiction of the international financial center "capital" and be governed by the principles of English law, which are the "gold" standard for risky investments.
a separate issue is the development around the city of nur-sultan.
transport services grew by 5.5%.
Prime Minister Askar Mama signed a decree of the first President of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation during a working trip to Turkestan region. a. Nazarbayev and the Head of State, as part of the execution of Tokayev's order to quickly restore housing and facilities in the city of arys, checked the progress of work in the city in a short time, as well as inspected the construction sites of objects of administrative, historical and cultural, social significance of the city of Turkestan.
It provides material and intangible incentives for teachers, comprehensive measures to improve the status of teachers, and protect the rights of teachers.
only through competition do we reduce the cost of air tickets.
It should be noted that Belarus is one of the leading partners of Kazakhstan on the world stage.
currently summed up the results of the first stage of the competition.
Shymkent has become a city with millions of inhabitants. shymkent has become a millionaire city .
the optimal railway network is fully formed. the optimal railway network has been fully formed .
At the same time, the first President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the results of the introduction of new mechanisms to stimulate production in inefficient areas in the oil and gas and chemical industries.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin held a meeting with the heads of diplomatic missions of the member states of the European Union on the further development of investment cooperation.
During the visit, the first President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the automated process of providing public services to the population.
the new hospital will be built as part of a public-private partnership between foreign and domestic investors.
The road map adopted within the framework of the Year of Youth, aimed at stimulating and supporting the young generation, is also being successfully implemented.
average yield was 12.6 c/ha.
So, at present, the Chinese company citic construction co.ltd, engaged in the restoration of the Taldykorgan-sprout highway, employs more than 2400 people.
the dynamics are provided by acceleration in industry, construction and services, as well as a stable rate of investment in agriculture and fixed assets, "said R. Dalenov.
Kazakhstan's position in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum improved from 59 to 55 places.
This year, the volume of funds for lending increased by 2 times compared to 2017 and amounted to about 83 billion tenge.
he noted that sport is one of the most important tools for the rehabilitation of disabled people, so such training centers should be opened in other regions of the country.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to intensify the work of party bodies - the party control committee and the republican public council on anti-corruption.
As part of the implementation of the project "village - cradle of the country," as well as the creation of a "food belt" around the capital, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the village of Rodina, Tselinograd district of Akmola, where he got acquainted with the work of Rodina Agrofirma LLP.
Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Programme for the Construction and Reconstruction of Sewage Treatment Facilities between witteven + bus and the Center;
then we can achieve beneficial results.
every citizen should clearly know what medical care is provided free of charge as a guarantee from the state, "said A. Mamin. it is necessary that every citizen clearly knows what kind of medical care the state provides for free as a guarantee , " said mamin .
the development of civil society was a topical topic.
The draft plan was developed on the basis of the tasks defined by the strategic documents of the President and the State and provides for the development of 16 bills.
growth during the reporting period amounted to 4.3%.
The event was organized within the framework of the Year of Youth at the initiative of the Ministry of Information and Public Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Head of Government instructed the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population together with akimats to organize explanatory work on new ways to provide assistance in the regions, submit the corresponding bill to the parliament by the end of October, and the akims of the regions to ensure clear implementation of the adjusted measures to provide assistance.
the headliners of the exhibition - the founders of the arlandesign gallery - the work of the four Angkauov brothers.
On October 24, a government working group led by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev met with residents of Shymkent.
The manager of akhko K. Kelimbetov informed the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan and the Chairman of the BHR about the work of akhko within the framework of the "one belt - one road" initiative, as well as the development of the akhko exchange, court and international arbitration center.
especially since the state creates unprecedented opportunities.
The moody's rating agency raised the country's credit rating from stable to positive.
if somewhere the work is carried out poorly, we can stop it or warn it.
currently there are many styles and directions in the machine, monumental painting, graphics and sculpture, as well as decorative and applied art. currently , there is a huge number of styles and trends in easel , monumental painting , graphics and sculpture , as well as in decorative and applied art .
At the meeting with medical workers of the region, the issues of raising wages, introducing compulsory medical insurance, improving the quality of medical services, improving the material and technical base and others were discussed.
The purpose of the project is to launch sustainable socially oriented business projects that are actually operating in all regions of Kazakhstan.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. nurymbets, Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan with. Lobsters, Chairman of the Board of Atameken a. myrzakhmetov, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance. smailov reported.
as part of the trip, arena projects were presented for sports playing sports (football of the blind, playing rugby sitting in wheelchairs, golball, several disciplines of pair athletics), as well as curling arenas, sitting in wheelchairs.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev and President K. Tokayev pay special attention to the development of the Baikonur cosmodrome infrastructure and its modernization in accordance with advanced standards, "A. Mamin said at the opening of the forum.
As we see, this gives the results of work aimed at reducing prices for air tickets. as you can see , the study of measures to reduce the price of air tickets gives results .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to Shymkent, where he got acquainted with the implementation of the tasks set by the first President of Kazakhstan - President Nursultan Nazarbayev on the development of the metropolis, and the implementation of the presidential election program.
In general, the whole range of measures will ensure the further dynamic development of villages, which, in turn, will positively affect the country's economy.
Since January of this year, 98 private schools will receive a state order in the amount of 6 billion tenge on the principle of per capita financing.
within the limits allocated when approving new state programs.
We plan that there will be three turns. we plan that there will be three turns .
The issues of ensuring cybersecurity and combating cybercrime were considered at a meeting of the Council on improving the investment climate under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The Governor's Office of the capital plans to implement 9 projects this year, including the construction of social, cultural facilities, gasification facilities, engineering networks.
Prime Minister Askar Mamin held a regular meeting with the heads of diplomatic missions of the member states of the European Union as part of a dialogue platform on the further development of investment cooperation.
in general, the plans include 2.9 thousand operations annually.
in addition, an analysis of the effectiveness of national companies will be carried out with proposals for their reduction, "said A. smailov.
in the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk a. Mamin got acquainted with the activities of the Center of Oncology and Surgery at the East Kazakhstan Regional Specialized Medical Center, the Center of Robotic Surgery, Angiosurgery and Transplantology, as well as the activities of the interdepartmental situational and investment center of the akim of East Kazakhstan region.
thousands of graduates come out at colleges every year, who systematically join the ranks of the unemployed. every year , thousands of people graduate from colleges , who routinely replenish the ranks of the unemployed .
the economic department is developing the concept of the bill and is preparing draft legislative amendments for the implementation of these innovations.
According to the First Deputy Minister of Energy, the preparation of energy enterprises for the autumn-winter period is carried out in accordance with the approved repair schedules.
a lot of work is being done to achieve these indicators, including amendments to the legislation, "said A. Mamin.
the city of Shymkent is one of the largest industrial centers in Kazakhstan.
as part of the expedition, qualified journalists, photographers, a television crew, travel bloggers and tour operators.
measures are also being taken to encourage taxes to be paid to the budget.
In Kazakhstan, there are 5 joint Kazakh-Russian enterprises for the production of uranium: "overland" joint venture ak, "karatau," "akbastau" by "ak," "waste" by "khorasan-y" by. "
The bulk of Kazakhstan's exports to Uzbekistan come from wheat and meslin, wheat or wheat-yeast flour, sunflower grain, sugar, cattle, and wheat residues.
we have great potential in agriculture. we have a great potential in agriculture .
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, the results of the implementation of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" and the measures proposed for the program "Business Roadmap 2025" were considered.
today 96.7% of large and medium-sized enterprises are covered by collective agreements.
the drama of its plot is interpreted as the struggle of good and evil, the beginning of light and darkness, the creation of a new life, a symbol of the eternal movement of contradictions and eternal struggle.
One of the drivers of the industrial and technological development of the region's economy and the entire industry is the assembly of cars.
subsidization of research and development work in the agricultural sector will also be introduced.
a plan of concrete measures has been developed to implement the tasks set by the head of state.
In general, as Saparbayev noted, preparations for the introduction of medical insurance are high.
As the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development noted, in order to increase transit potential, systematic work is underway to develop international corridors.
monthly inflation in May of this year amounted to 0.6%.
The international center of green technologies and investment projects established in Kazakhstan can become a successful platform for introducing clean technologies.
The length of engineering networks was 3.4 thousand kilometers.
The Prime Minister stressed that ensuring the growth of foreign direct investment and trade volumes is one of the priority areas of the Kazakh government's work.
Within the framework of SPFIID and the Industrialization Map in 2019, it is planned to implement 11 projects worth 61.9 billion tenge with the creation of 1214 jobs.
About 30 amendments were made to 5 regulatory acts.
and able-bodied persons must work.
this measure is aimed at investors seeking to optimize their tax expenditures, thereby increasing the investment attractiveness of the country.
In general, these measures will increase the availability and quality of demanded services and the efficiency of electronic services, "said A. Mamin.
we have many sports and cultural facilities.
An engineering center will also be organized, which has no analogues in the Republic of Kazakhstan for the development of technical personnel competencies, advanced training and retraining of personnel.
During the talks, topical issues of implementation of joint projects in the oil and gas sector were considered.
the signing of the contract is scheduled for December of this year.
As of August 8, 188.3 applications in the amount of KZT16,677 billion were submitted as part of the program, including 112.7 applications in the amount of KZT9,813 billion were approved by banks.
the meeting also discussed topical issues of cross-border and integration cooperation.
little time left for harvesting. there is little time left for cleaning .
Then the Deputy Prime Minister took part in the presentation of scientific projects in the field of ecology among students of grades 2-7, noted the high level of training of students and knowledge in this field, and also participated in the ceremony of planting trees on the school grounds.
The head of government called an important task to increase the export of non-primary goods with high value added.
then the Deputy Prime Minister held a meeting with the local intelligentsia, historians, scientists in the newly built visiting center.
The Prime Minister noted that the government, on behalf of President Tokayev, paying special attention to the socio-economic development of the city and improving the quality of life of the population, approved a new comprehensive plan for the socio-economic development of the city of Semey for 2020-2025.
On November 8, a government working group headed by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev visited Pavlodar region.
citizens of Kazakhstan living abroad.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, now more than 4 thousand builders and 185 units of special equipment 2642 objects of individual housing construction and multi-storey residential buildings.
Kazakhstan proposes to use the second type of program - investment tax residency.
houses are being repaired from the beginning of the street, the queue gradually reaches us, "said a resident of the city arys bayan naushabekova.
Turkey is one of the group of 10 main trading partners of Kazakhstan. turkey is among the top 10 countries-major trading partners of kazakhstan .
the budget received 8.8 trillion tenge.
According to the readiness of information systems, preparatory work has been completed in Karaganda region.
At the regular meeting of the government of RK under the chairmanship of the prime minister Askar Mamin the course of implementation of the state program of housing construction of "Nrla zher" and the project for 2020-2025 is considered.
modernization of the public consciousness of the first president - the head of state, "he said. sklar.
Prime Minister Askar Mama, on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Kassym-jomart Tokayeva, visited the city of arys under the leadership of the government commission, visited residential neighborhoods and social facilities affected by emergency situations in the city.
from. According to Barmakov, during the construction and repair of roads, the laboratory of the contracting organization, technical supervision, author supervision, the "national center for the quality of road assets" and the customer are controlled.
At a government meeting chaired by Prime Minister A. Mamin, the issue of further construction of a light rail project in the city of Nur-Sultan was considered.
President Tokayev, adhering to continuity in foreign policy, attaches great importance to the effective development of cooperation with Mongolia, "said A. Mamin.
school principals and class leaders need to maintain close ties with their parents, carry out professionally oriented work with children, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
on the work done on the development of the mechanism for the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State to the Kassym-generous Tokayev on this pilot project of the Governor of Zhambyl region. Myrzakhmetov, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan b. nurymbetov, Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan R. kurmanov, as well as Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B. Saparbayev reported.
to appoint the mayor of the city of Nur-Sultan, the text of the decree says.
According to the Prime Minister, given the current situation in the world economy, special attention should be paid to the development of industrial cooperation in order to have a positive impact on the growth of the economies of the EAEU countries.
According to the assessment of representatives of the French business community, Kazakhstan is a reliable partner of France in Central Asia, has experience of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
Thanked for the various programmes and support provided by the State.
Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Myrzakhmetov noted that as part of the implementation of the President's instructions to provide employment measures, work is provided in three areas: assistance in employment, training in the basics of entrepreneurship and screening.
how we got a solid foundation for reliable cooperation.
this rating measures the quality of education in school in three subjects: mathematics, natural science, education.
Today, the technopark is fully 100%, more than 260 projects, that is, more than 1000 people have undergone incubation and acceleration programs.
today the plant produces 1,500 units of equipment per year.
this is great.
you can apply online, the system is automated.
children's creative groups were shown by the first president of Kazakhstan several musical productions.
I had it a long time ago.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan R. Sklyar, Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan with. Lobster reported on the provision of quality drinking water to the population, and also reported to the Governor of Almaty region. Batalov, Governor of Kyzylorda region K. Kusherbayev, Governor of Zhambyl region a. myrzakhmetov, akim of Karaganda region e. Koshanov's reports were heard.
From last year, pilot projects on the labeling of alcohol, tobacco and shoes will be implemented.
One of the important tools for preventing labor conflicts is the conclusion of collective agreements in which it is possible to resolve the relationship between the employer and employees, "he said. nurymbets.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan b. atamkuls and chairman of the "baiterek" ubh "a. Aripkhanov reported on the main directions of the new state program and plans for the future.
In the second half of June this year, gasoline exports will begin, "said K. bozumbayev.
however, b. According to the sultan, today the akimats actually do not use this function.
The solemn meetings dedicated to the beginning of the new school year were attended by members of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who held classes in schools dedicated to citizenship and patriotism.
targeted social assistance for all family members will be paid in the amount of the difference between the average income and the poverty line.
This was reported by the press service of the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
subsidies for seeds, fertilizers and pesticides.
I visited huge buildings today.
participants consisted of qualified journalists, photographers, a television crew, travel bloggers and tour operators.
A meeting on budget planning was held at the Akara residence under the chairmanship of the head of state.
these funds will be used to subsidize bank entities, lend to agricultural producers, carry out spring field and harvesting work.
In total, 55,849 residential buildings were commissioned in the republic (of which 24,013 were individual).
the parties expressed confidence that the decisions taken by the intergovernmental commission will make a significant contribution to strengthening bilateral relations and will open up new opportunities for the development of the economy of the two countries.
the opening ceremony is an important point in the history of the development of a multifaceted Kazakh-Belarusian dialogue, and part of the Belarusian land in Kazakhstan will become a place for opening up new opportunities to increase mutually beneficial cooperation across the entire spectrum of bilateral relations aimed at increasing the well-being and prosperity of our citizens.
the results of the analysis showed that income from one yard of personal subsidiary farms averages 25-30 thousand tenge per month.
memorandum in the field of veterinary control and supervision between the veterinary control committee of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the main veterinary department - the executive agency of the Government of Mongolia;
work has begun on the introduction of per capita funding in private schools. work has begun on the introduction of per capita regulatory funding in private schools .
The president of the capital, p. Foster, spoke about the development of the company.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. atamkulov, chairman of the "baiterek" ubh "a. Aripkhanov, akim of Kyzylorda region Iskakov, akim of Aktobe region about. Orazalin, akim of Atyrau region nogayev and deputy akim of the city nur-sultan nurken.
At the same time, the road map was approved.
in addition, the government, together with the joint-stock company National Welfare Fund Samruk-kazyna, plans to recapitalize air astana and qazaq air airlines in order to increase the fleet of aircraft.
There are two information systems in Karaganda region.
Director of the National Museum of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Turkey Azalat Saparbekuly, General Director of Museums and Cultural Monuments Gokhan Languages, General Secretary of the Turkic Dussen Kaseins took part in the solemn meeting.
summing up, I want to note that the launch of the investment residency program in Kazakhstan should bring significant investments in the long term, "B. Sholpankulov said.
As the head of the National Bank noted, in the second half of this year, an independent assessment of the quality of banks' assets will be carried out according to international standards.
The effective implementation of the program was influenced by the first amendments providing guarantees of a lack of a guarantee base, increased funding of working capital and the introduction of new products for lending (poultry meat, cotton fibers).
Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Aktobe Raimkulova, Director of the Sports Directorate of the National Olympic Committee of Elsiyar Kanagats, Executive Director of the National Paralympic Committee erlan Suleimenov, as well as representatives of sports federations and head coaches of national teams spoke at the meeting.
Askar Mom noted that the government adopted the Roadmap for the development of mechanical engineering for 2019-2024, which provides for the development of issues to provide engineering enterprises with tax benefits, financial and raw materials support, as well as qualified personnel.
Measures will be taken jointly with the Accounts Committee to strengthen accountability for the inefficient use and planning of budgets in the public and quasi-public sectors.
In the republic, currently overhaul requires 18.1 thousand houses.
Askar Mama read out a letter from the head of state to the deputies of the maslikhat on the appointment of a happy sagintayev to the post of akim of the city.
The head of government noted Kazakhstan's interest in expanding the agricultural machinery market, further exporting it, deepening localization processes and increasing the level of service.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov reported on measures taken to support domestic producers in public procurement.
This was reported by the press service of the Ministry of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan.
Akim of the city nur-sultan a. Kulginov noted that today it was decided to continue the implementation of the lrt project, taking into account international obligations, the city's need for an alternative mode of transport, as well as the amount of work done to prepare and build infrastructure.
As part of the project implemented by the National Museum of Kazakhstan with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, a golden man who has become a symbol of Kazakhstan's independence will be represented to about twenty states of Europe, Asia and other countries, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
22.5 billion tenge is provided for solving problems around the city of nur-sultan for a three-year period, these funds should be used to improve the quality of life of citizens living in the vicinity of the city, "said Askar Mamin.
In addition, since this year, other primary documents have been translated into electronic format: electronic contracts, certificates of work performed, on the basis of which the electronic invoice form was automatically completed.
the new Governor's Office, together with the regional asset and the deputies of the maslikhat, was instructed to mobilize all efforts to achieve the goals set.
Council members discussed a number of issues, such as improving customs legislation, customs and tariff regulation, labeling of goods, international partnership with third countries.
continue to open flights to Shanghai and Singapore in 2020, and the completion of the accreditation procedure for domestic airlines to New York, completion by the end of this year of the reconstruction of the runway of Kostanay and Balkhash airports, completion of the construction of the airport and terminal in Shymkent in Turkestan within the prescribed time frame, accelerate the development and adoption of a program for the development of small aviation and airfields in the regions.
The Prime Minister reported on the implementation of the pilot project on the introduction of compulsory social health insurance (mms) in Karaganda region.
this can be solved by acquiring a good breeding stock from near and far abroad, "said A. Rafalsky.
Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry of Kazakhstan a. Zhumagaliyev and Chairman of the Board of Kazakhtelecom JSC K. Yesekeev reported on the progress of the work.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the importance of developing the tourism potential of Turkestan and the entire region.
- Coordination and monitoring of the implementation of Government activities is the responsibility of the Project Office of the Government. "
Since Soviet times, the opinion has been enshrined in our consciousness that the state should pay for medical services, carry out expensive operations for free, and dispense medicines for free. it has firmly entered our minds since the soviet era that the state should pay for medical services , carry out costly surgeries free of charge , and distribute medicines free of charge .
The Minister also said that all regions have completed the sowing campaign.
In the capital of Tatarstan, the head of government of the Republic of Kazakhstan visited the Kazan helicopter plant and visited the Khimgrad technopolis.
On the current results and prospects of the international financial center "Capital" at a government meeting chaired by Prime Minister of Kazakhstan acting First Vice Minister of Finance K. Kelimbetov. sholpankuls.
In addition, the head of state focused on the implementation of regional development programs.
demand for highly skilled labour is growing. the demand for highly skilled labor is growing .
The primary task of the Cabinet of Ministers is to immediately begin to implement social support measures, quickly carry out all organizational and legal measures for their timely implementation.
About 3,000 active young people of Kyzylorda, Aktobe, West Kazakhstan, Mangistau and Atyrau regions took part in the project to support young talents and leaders.
the whole Turkic world considers Turkestan a center.
68 objects worth 1091 billion tenge are under implementation (investment period), of which 65 - of local importance worth 365 billion tenge and 3 - of republican value worth 725.9 billion tenge: a large Almaty ring road (waaage), providing rural settlements with broadband Internet access, a system for collecting data on air passengers.
at the plenary session of the forum, President of Turkmenistan Mr. Berdimuhamedov, Prime Minister of Russia D. Medvedev, Prime Minister of Azerbaijan N. Mammadov, First Vice President of Iran e. Prime Minister of Uzbekistan a. Aripov and Prime Minister of Bulgaria b. borisov.
The sides noted the importance of strengthening cooperation between the border regions, noting the great potential for expanding bilateral cooperation in the field of engineering, chemical industry, metallurgy, agriculture, tourism, transport, gas.
In addition, the "nұr otan" faction does not initiate topical issues of concern to society.
In general, to increase the investment attractiveness of renewable energy projects, the head of government instructed the Ministry of Energy, taking into account international experience, to amend the current legislation accordingly.
your agricultural company is one of the leading and typical enterprises in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to extend the accumulated experience to other peasant farms in our country, "said A. Mamin.
The commissioning of the facility is scheduled for the end of next year.
renewable energy development has become a global trend.
the parties agreed to continue to maintain a positive direction in the development of relations and to make all efforts to further strengthen them in the economic, political, as well as social spheres.
At the moment, about 30 projects worth $3.8 billion have been fully implemented.
among them - cellular medicines for treatment of burns of a body, new grades of wheat and potatoes, the vaccine against diseases, medicines, medicinal and treatment-and-prophylactic medicines.
deposits in national currency have increased by 5.5% since the beginning of the year.
Minister of National Economy presenting these bills, Dalenov noted that transfers of a general nature are aimed at equalizing the budgetary security of the regions and increasing motivation for the development of the regional economy.
within the walls of Karaganda State Technical University.
Today, we have attracted more than 100 specialists in sports medicine who, together with the coaching staff, participate in the preparation of national teams, "said E. Kanagatov.
the fourth industrial revolution was the impetus for the emergence of new professions and competencies. the fourth industrial revolution gives impetus to the emergence of new professions and competencies .
Competition of the best student innovation projects "My real contribution to the innovative development of Kazakhstan" within the framework of the annual republican event, "What can I do for the prosperity of my country?" Competition of the best essays, best poetic works and songs on patriotic topics.
I thank everyone for their active participation in the summit, I wish you success and fruitful work! "- concluded the head of state.
The head of state gave concrete instructions to improve the quality of urban infrastructure, strengthen public safety, develop the transport system, medicine and education.
26,984 enterprises were opened, 19,553 permits were prepared, assistance in financing in the amount of 649 billion tenge was provided.
also at the local level, a number of measures are provided: support and implementation of up to 10 volunteer startups in each region; organizing coordination work with volunteer and volunteer organizations.
this should be done, first of all, by local executive bodies.
At the same time, the volume of export-import transportation by road between Kazakhstan and Tajikistan increased by 2.9 times and amounted to 16.9 million tons.
The Prime Minister noted that ensuring the growth of foreign direct investment and trade volumes is one of the priority areas of the Government of Kazakhstan.
67 events are planned, as a result of which 16.3 thousand jobs will be created.
The head of government thanked the lion Muhammadil for his contribution to the development of the sphere of culture, sports, tourism.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the launch of the factory will give a great impetus to the development of the textile cluster of Kazakhstan.
Prime Minister Askar Mama met with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev as part of a working trip to Moscow.
In turn, the director of the representative office of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development noted that the agricultural premanis sector is one of the priority areas of ECB work in Kazakhstan.
Also, the government working group held meetings with teachers and medical workers of the region, met with residents of the village of Evgenievka, Aksu district, and visited a number of social facilities.
Prime Minister Askar Mama, on behalf of the Head of State, took part in an extraordinary meeting of the maslikhat of the Kyzylorda region, where he read out a letter from the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev with a proposal to appoint a warm spark to the post of akim of the region.
this is a good dynamic.
starting next year, we will make changes to programs to support large and low-income families.
in addition, the investor initiated participation in environmental protection projects, especially the processing of secondary used materials.
Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Zhumagaliyev reported on the measures taken to introduce digitalization in the field of land relations, as well as automation and optimization of public services.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development B. Atamkulov noted that 36 projects are currently under implementation and development within the framework of public-private partnership mechanisms in the supervised sectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan, of which 9 are republican and 27 are regional.
The Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population on improving the efficiency of budget expenditures within the framework of the state labor program and involving large families in micro and small businesses of nurymbets reported on new support measures in the form of microcredit.
specialists will tell citizens about the possibilities of opening their own business and advise on state support measures.
According to the minister, the change in the wage criteria is aimed at ensuring its transparency, fairness and motivation to work, as well as the introduction of a guaranteed social package for children from low-income families.
The preparation of the party's new election program for the Majilis elections should begin today.
that, b. According to Saparbayev, this is a clear proof of the measures taken by the state to strengthen the material and technical base of health care.
To date, a pool of investment projects has been created for 41.6 trillion tenge. today , a pool of investment projects worth 41.6 trillion tenge until 2025 has been formed .
During a working trip to Almaty, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in an environmental subbotnik to clean the swamps.
investments in fixed assets amounted to 121.8 billion tenge.
in turn, Governor of Pavlodar region b. bakauov spoke about the development of the regional innovation system.
in the manufacturing industry, mechanical engineering, light industry, beverage production, pharmaceuticals there was a double-digit increase.
The Deputy Prime Minister also criticized the work of colleges.
we have many sports and cultural facilities.
Based on the results of the work, proposals will be made to introduce "popular participation budgets" at the local level.
The head of government noted that the akims need to take all necessary measures to fulfill the approved indicators of local content, as well as ensure compliance with the requirements of the legislation, industrial certificate and ct-kz certificate.
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan examined the residential area of the military town. reconstruction of the Zhuravl school, city hospital, railway station, residential buildings, reconstruction of the central stadium.
The Deputy Prime Minister reported on the victory on issues of tangent housing, water supply, overhaul of apartment buildings, accessibility of roads, air tickets.
In addition, there was an exchange of views on the development of Kazakhstan's financial system in the modern global environment, as well as issues of modernizing the tax system, reducing the oil deficit and reducing contributions from the national fund, as well as developing the public procurement system.
weekly meetings of these commissions are held, "said a. Myrzakhmetov.
In general, together with local executive bodies, a lot of preparatory work is underway to introduce a medical insurance system: a regulatory framework has been formed, large-scale explanatory work is being carried out, and issues of automation, equipment and digitalization of healthcare are being resolved. in general , together with local executive bodies , a large-scale preparatory work is being carried out for the insurance : a regulatory framework has been formed , explanation is being carried out , issues of automation , equipment and digitalization of the healthcare sector are being addressed .
To implement plans for the development of renewable energy sources, as well as other measures aimed at further improving the green economy and fulfilling the obligations of the Paris Agreement, the Ministry of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources has begun to develop a strategy for the low-carbon development of Kazakhstan until 2025.
During the meeting, representatives of agribusiness were heard.
Together with the regional akimats, 52 rural settlements were selected this year, 452 events were implemented.
For us next year, for three basics, there is a risk of joining the non-working WTO. we run the risk of entering next year with two non-functioning of the three main pillars of the wto .
the hub will allow introducing and stimulating new products in the financial technology market.
within the country, the system will create conditions for civilized trade, increase the availability of the population with sufficient trade infrastructure and a large assortment of goods, increase competition in the market to reduce prices for consumer goods.
Among the most important laws adopted during the sessions are the republican budget for 2019-2021, amendments to the law on employment, laws on health, cinematography, transport, standardization, on the development of the business environment and regulation of trade activities, laws on the transfer of functions of central and local executive bodies to a competitive environment.
to do so, health facilities at all levels must be connected to the necessary information systems.
Prime Minister Askar Mama noted at the ceremony that new professions are emerging today under the influence of digitalization and artificial study.
According to K. Bozumbayev, the volume of electricity production amounted to 44.1 billion kw/h.
this list includes 1940 medical organizations.
As part of digitalization, an online ejustice system for the region was launched at the beginning of this year, allowing the parties to appeal to the ahko court in electronic form from anywhere in the world.
Funding for priority population-based health care, including medical rehabilitation, will increase significantly by 7 times next year and 11 times by 2025.
a. Mom initiated the creation of a council for the development of the digital economy.
In turn, the akimats of Zhambyl, Kostanay and Pavlodar regions were instructed to intensify work in this direction and strengthen measures to provide the village with water on an ongoing basis.
The design of the complex of buildings of the Embassy of the Republic of Belarus in the Republic of Kazakhstan is the term "Ataevsky."
In Shymkent, the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan visited the territory of urban sewage treatment networks, where he got acquainted with the work of the wastewater treatment system and the electricity treatment complex (biogas equipment) for production from rainwater.
A. Mamin noted that it is necessary to use all efforts to ensure the sustainable life of the Arysk city, noting that "the government, on behalf of the head of state, controls the issues of further development of the city of Arys."
According to the State Emergency Service of Kazakhstan, the length of heat supply networks in Kazakhstan is 11511 kilometers, the average wear of which is 60%.
he collects the remaining 20-30 thousand tenge monthly.
taking into account 15 thousand trained under the start-up project, 33.3 thousand unemployed and self-employed were covered, including more than 600 members of large families under 29 years of age.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the current indicators and plans for the development of roads in the region.
According to the results of the analysis, it is proposed to exclude from the list of works and services from 173 state tasks worth 402 billion tenge by transferring 68 tasks for public procurement totaling 38 billion tenge.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the results of the implementation of the pilot project on the introduction of compulsory social health insurance in the Karaganda region were considered.
October 8-9 of this year, the Prime Minister a. During working trips to East Kazakhstan, Karaganda and Almaty regions, Mom checked the implementation of the Nұrly Zhol program.
In turn, the Deputy Prime Minister advised young people to get rid of the mood for tolerance and master new digital technologies, strive for knowledge and hard work.
all planned activities will be implemented as part of the improvement of international rating indicators.
The Ministry of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources was entrusted with the authority to protect the environment, supervise the rational use of natural resources, geology and overproduction of the mineral resource base, as well as the management of solid domestic waste, water supply and wastewater disposal, forestry.
In addition, in order to promote the concept of "cocco in your pocket," mobile registration sectors operate in front offices, where residents register on the basis of mobile citizens and assist in training in the installation and acquisition of mobile applications of chat bots, egov, mgov on social networks.
if they are involved in sport, art, participate in various circles and sections, then will be healthy, brought up, formed, and, above all - offenses do not go for actions.
entrepreneurship development is predominantly regional in nature.
more than half of all recipients of targeted social assistance are members of large families.
the implementation of this project will create new high-performance jobs, bring tractors to agriculture and the weaving industry, increase localization and develop related industries, "said A. Mamin.
Deputy Prime Minister visited a number of medical facilities in Karaganda, held a meeting with the participation of Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Yelzhan Birtanov, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan, Deputy Akims of Regions and Almaty, cities of Shymkent.
Upon arrival, mother's askar got acquainted with the project of the new airport terminal in Shymkent.
We are implementing a comprehensive cancer control plan for 2018-2022, the main task of which is primarily the introduction of an integrated model of prevention, diagnosis and provision of oncological care, training and retraining of personnel. we are implementing a comprehensive plan for the fight against cancer for 2018-2022 , the main task of which is to conduct , first of all , prevention , diagnosis , implementation of an integrated model of cancer care , training and retraining of personnel .
Summing up, Roman Sklyar noted that today Kazakhstan is a new opportunity and great potential for efficient business.
To provide broadband access to the Internet, 3324 rural settlements with a population of more than 250 people are connected (79%).
In order to increase the population's availability of productive employment measures, the Prime Minister was instructed to develop a plan and methodology for the implementation of regional screening to increase population incomes, taking into account the positive experience of the Zhambyl, Almaty, Aktobe and Turkestan regions.
The Head of Government gave a number of specific instructions on the construction and modernization of the facilities of the fuel and energy complex of the capital.
To date, 58 of the 100 steps of the National Plan have been completed and are out of control, 3 steps are being implemented within the framework of the program "Modernization of public consciousness" and are under the control of the National Commission for the Modernization of Public Consciousness.
many international financial institutions are interested in financing similar projects.
The akims of the regions need to adhere to the established directions when spending budget funds, "A. Mamin emphasized.
at excavations in Almaty dedicated to the Day of the First President of the Country "I Believe in Youth!" Republican Forum.
I do not need and am proud of what I earn, "said Zhanar Kadyrova, deputy prime minister to a resident of Isatai district.
Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Dalenov reported on the introduction in the state program "Business Roadmap-2025" of new forms of business support with priority in social aspects, including family business.
The Head of Government instructed the akims of the regions within two weeks to check the current state of the infrastructure of coal preparation and passage points, the supply schedule, prices and quality of coal sold, the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development together with Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC to provide the necessary volume of cars for coal delivery.
a new model and mechanism for financing small schools will be developed, a mobile teacher project will be introduced, measures will be taken to train teachers in close specialties.
The Prime Minister paid particular attention to the issue of youth employment.
Currently, the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan is analyzing the second five-year plan of industrialization, issues of effectiveness of the proposed measures of state support of sectors of the economy, efficiency of implementation of action plans, including their incomplete financing are being considered. at present , the ministry of industry and infrastructure development is analyzing the second five-year plan of industrialization , within the framework of which issues of the effectiveness of provided state support to the economic sectors , the implementation of action plans , including their underfunding , are being examined .
The Kazakh side noted the successful implementation of cooperation between our countries in the field of transport, which plays an important role in the development of economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Tatarstan in various sectors of the economy, including mechanical engineering.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, since the beginning of the year the volume of industrial production amounted to 102.7%, including mining amounted to 102.4%, manufacturing - 103.2%.
In turn, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Alexander said that cooperation between Belarusian and Kazakhstani enterprises in the field of Turchin industry, agriculture, transport, pharmaceuticals, medicine and horse breeding is promising.
As the Deputy Prime Minister noted in his speech, at present Kazakh-French relations can be described as a "strategic partnership," a model of effective and complementary cooperation based on the traditions of friendship and mutual support.
The Prime Minister noted the importance of the issue under consideration.
the president called for optimizing costs at all stages of budget planning, establishing close cooperation with the Accounts Committee, as well as reducing unreasonable image and consulting costs.
The meeting discussed issues of further strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan on the implementation of joint projects in the field of ensuring sustainable economic growth.
this applies not only to your family, but also to all disabled people in our country.
At RK meeting of the Government under the chairmanship of the prime minister A. Mamin the course of implementation of the program of "Nrla zher" is considered.
Currently, all sectors are engaged in work, 3,040 individual housing construction and reconstruction of multi-storey residential buildings, 190 construction companies, about 5 thousand builders and 207 special equipment are involved.
a bill had been drafted to promote fair competition, reduce corruption risks and improve the quality of goods, works, services and suppliers. an appropriate bill has been developed which is aimed at stimulating fair competition , reducing corruption risks , as well as improving the quality of goods , work , services and qualifications of suppliers .
To date, 4,650 applications totaling 47 billion tenge have been received in residential construction bank, of which 3,250 loans worth 33 billion tenge have been issued.
leaders of the global financial industry - the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the nasdaq American Exchange, the Silk Road Fund and the largest American investment bank goldman sachs - became strategic partners and shareholders of the exchange as part of the Belt and Road Initiative.
In turn, M. Rutte expressed confidence that the official visit of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan to the Netherlands will give a significant impetus to the further development of bilateral cooperation.
administration will be simplified, which will allow effective regulation of local content in public procurement, "summed up A. smailov.
Social Security
The Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan regularly conducts negotiations with other countries to create a regulatory framework and establish full-fledged cooperation.
tyson foods is a world-class company with the necessary experience to give Kazakhstan an impetus to the development of meat processing and an increase in the number of farms.
in the West Kazakhstan region (84.5%), Turkestan region (94.9%), Shymkent (90.7%).
we are pleased with the positive dynamics in all areas of cooperation, including in the trade and economic sphere. we are pleased with the positive dynamics in all areas of cooperation , including in the trade and economic relations .
three rehabilitation centres have been opened, including one for children, three clinics in Shymkent, Karaganda and Nur Sultan.
annual inflation was maintained at 5.4%.
In conclusion, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov drew the attention of colleagues to the lack of coordination on the creation of common logistics corridors, suggested the Eurasian Economic Commission to work out the issue of digitizing the transport infrastructure of the eurozone.
It is necessary to determine a new indicator of the performance of akimats - this is ensuring access of the population to clean drinking water, "A. Mamin said.
The celebration of the 175th anniversary of Abay Kunanbaiula is one of the most important events in the recent history of independent Kazakhstan, aimed at instilling the historical consciousness of the people and promoting the spiritual culture of our country in a global format, "said Abdykalikova.
worked in the oil and gas industry, served as deputy chairman of Kazmunaigaz, vice minister of oil and gas.
As part of the simple substances economy program, the company will become Kazakhstan's first producer of processing animals and vegetable oils for environmentally friendly products - soap granules, which were previously imported.
work has been strengthened to stimulate cashless payments, counter the shadow economy, and the fight against capital withdrawal and tax waivers has been tightened. work will be strengthened to stimulate cashless payments , counteract the shadow economy , and the fight against the withdrawal of capital and tax evasion has been tightened .
Deputy Prime Minister romance sclar william x. In an interview with Moser, he noted that today Kazakhstan is one of the most important partners in the international arena, and relations between the two countries have been formed in a spirit of friendship and mutual understanding for many years.
intergovernmental negotiations were devoted to further improving trade and economic, investment cooperation, industrial cooperation, issues of interaction in the field of energy, agriculture, transport.
Speaking about the celebration of the 175th anniversary of Abai in 2020, a. Mamin noted that the government establishes special control over the implementation of the plan, which includes more than 500 activities at the international, republican and regional levels.
According to the First Vice Minister, under the program "with a diploma in the village," housing lending will be expanded, an analysis of the number of universities will be carried out, and the salaries of teachers, employees of cultural and art organizations will be increased.
the annual production capacity of the enterprise is more than 27 thousand units, more than 50 models of 8 brand cars will be created here.
residential building block provides for the construction of multi-storey residential buildings in administrative, business microdistricts, along the rivers "shymkent city," "turan," "koshkar ata."
the main damage is the roof, windows, internal doors and walls of buildings, "said the adviser to the akim of the region.
under the project "creating the infrastructure of the road checkpoint" Nұr zholy "on the section of the road Almat - Khorgos (western Europe - western China)"
for expenses, a high percentage of execution is ensured - 99.8%.
at the same time, the short-term economic indicator continues to decline in the West Kazakhstan region.
The Deputy Prime Minister in his speech said: "a new global civilization with a digital society and a knowledge economy is emerging, and our country must meet the requirements of this time.
in addition, special attention will be paid to the development of the outskirts of large cities of Almaty and Shymkent, since a fifth of the population is not provided with the necessary infrastructure.
As part of the working trip to Atyrau region, the Head of Government of Kazakhstan held a meeting on the development of local content, oil and gas engineering, compliance with labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We hope that the list of such investors who know Kazakhstan well, our legislation is well aware of Kazakhstan and will contribute to renewable energy sources, "said the director of the department of renewable energy sources of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan Ainur Sospanova.
According to the results of the 1st half of 2019, fiber-optic networks were put into operation in 83 rural settlements (including 85 health facilities and 76 educational facilities).
The Ministry of Finance will continue to work comprehensively to improve and strengthen customs administration.
the expedition was on a thirteen-day expedition in the Kazakh, Kyrgyz and Uzbek directions.
Since the beginning of the year, the heads of enterprises in arrears were issued orders for 1 thousand 200 and a fine for 136 million tenge was imposed.
According to him, the EAEU countries need to pay great attention to cooperation and the creation of regional value chains.
this is mainly due to an increase in sales of vehicles, car parts and petroleum products.
if earlier such funds were allocated under the "bright land" programs for doctors, teachers, police, "7-20-25," then now there is a proposal to give families raising children with disabilities, "the chairman of the committee concluded.
On May 30 of this year, the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tokayev "On the celebration of the 175th anniversary of Abay Kunanbaiula" was approved.
During the working trip to the region, the Deputy Prime Minister held meetings with the public, active youth, labor veterans, health workers, and also visited a number of social facilities.
Take, for example, only one direction "Almaty - nur-sultan."
In this regard, I urge to support the initiative of the Nur Otan party to raise funds in order to extend a helping hand to Lviv residents, "said Askar Mama.
In general, at the end of the year, the planned values ​ ​ of the volume index in all industries supervised by the ministry will be achieved, "said B. atamkulov.
the city of nur-sultan is a leading force in the introduction of digital and intelligent technologies. nur sultan is a leading force in the adoption of digital and intelligent technologies .
At the same time, the new generation of 5g communication is simultaneously developing to provide broadband wireless connectivity, the organization of the Internet of things and high-speed technologies.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan paid special attention to the solution of housing issues in the region.
As of June this year, the volume of foreign direct investment from Singapore to the Kazakh economy almost tripled - from $28.5 million to $80.7 million.
this package includes reforms to simplify business processes important to investors when opening enterprises and registering property, obtaining construction permits and connecting to electricity systems.
the development of the transport industry is in the center of attention of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
about half of all expenses - 4.3 trillion tenge were used for these purposes.
conversation with young Shymkents developed openly, creatively, and most importantly, constructively.
During negotiations with valvtechnologies President Hunt, the possibility of opening a plant in Kazakhstan for the production of valves and closures for the oil and gas sector was considered.
The Prime Minister instructed the regional akims to solve the issues of equipping medical organizations with computers, continuous Internet and information systems.
In turn, the heads of diplomatic missions noted the positive dynamics of work to create favorable conditions for doing business in Kazakhstan.
This year, at the initial stage, 10 rural districts of 10 districts of the region need 7.2 billion tenge, which are planned to be allocated for the provision of 2459 microcredit, including 492 startup projects.
the government constantly supported and supported federations.
functions of the fiscal data operator are transferred to the competitive environment (ak "kazakhtelecom," ak "transtelecom," LLP "cartel (beeline)").
in addition, challenges # abai175, successfully implemented on social networks, will continue today in a global format.
the president identified the implementation of the election platform as the main task of the government. the government 's primary task is to determine the implementation of the election platform .
Within the framework of cooperation with the WTO, Kazakhstan has improved a number of legislative acts in the field of currency regulation, pricing and the development of competition, tax policy, customs regulation, import licensing, protection of intellectual property rights, product safety, including through technical regulation, sanitary and veterinary measures.
In turn, the Deputy Prime Minister of Armenia expressed interest in deepening bilateral ties and noted the significant potential of increasing trade turnover between our countries.
In honor of the beginning of the expedition, a press conference was held today in the press center of the visit almaty tourist information center.
In support of the action "Arys, we are together," initiated by the party "Nұr Otan," employees of the office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan transfer a one-day salary to the injured residents.
in particular, they raised issues of strengthening the fight against corruption, improving the quality of education, supporting socially vulnerable segments of the population, social security and others.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Mom n. participation in the ceremony of signing an agreement on the construction of new healthcare facilities under the mechanism of public-private partnership as part of the implementation of social measures of "social care" Nazarbayev and the execution of instructions of the Head of State Tokayev on issues of protecting the health of Kazakhstanis.
The State continues to provide the population with the necessary package of basic health services at the primary health care level (preventive vaccinations and medical examinations, patronage, pregnancy examinations and access to emergency and emergency care.
The Head of Government noted that according to the results of the World Bank rating on ease of doing business in the cities and regions of the country, the akims of Almaty and Mangistau and Aktobe regions worked effectively (1, 2 and 3 places respectively).
Next year, Kazakhstan will celebrate the 1150th anniversary of two enlighteners - al-Farabi and the 175th anniversary of birth. next year , kazakhstan will celebrate the anniversaries of two enlighteners of the 1,150th anniversary of al-farabi , the 175th anniversary of abay .
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama during a working trip to the Turkestan region checked the progress of construction and repair of damaged houses, social facilities, engineering networks of the Arysian city, and also held a meeting on the restoration of the city.
he noted the weak relationship between teachers and parents, which needed to be corrected.
continuation of the work to optimize the staff and reduce operating expenses of the holding;
however, in order to optimize costs and improve the quality of investment asset management, the Government is mandated to study the consolidation of the extrabudgetary social security system through the establishment of a single social fund and the introduction of one social benefit.
youth year, the upcoming year of volunteers and enrollment in the presidential personnel reserve - all these steps indicate that young people in our country can realize their goals and become happy, "said Berdybek saparbayev.
at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister a. Dalenov, Minister of Trade and Integration b. sultans, Minister of Agriculture with. With a report on prices for socially significant goods.
the importance of using public-private partnerships in joint projects, including in the field of health, engineering infrastructure.
Along with the construction of wholesale distribution centers, work is underway to improve the retail infrastructure.
especially at the end of the year, it is necessary to review the implementation of collective agreements, on the basis of which it is necessary to prepare labor contracts for the next year.
we should get a synergistic effect from the implementation of joint projects in Almaty and Almaty region. we need to get a synergistic effect from the implementation of joint projects in almaty and almaty region .
it reflects the issues of updating the state apparatus, personnel planning and automation of public services.
the mission clarified that the economic growth rate in Kazakhstan remained high, mainly due to the non-oil sector, primarily the construction and services sectors.
today there is a joint work in a wide range of areas, "said A. Mamin.
During the meeting, he noted that today's multilateral trading system faces unprecedented challenges in the form of protectionism and unilateral trade measures.
the exhibition exhibits the "golden man," which is a symbol of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
within the framework of the fifth task, the following measures are being taken to improve architectural, urban planning and construction activities:
we will encourage the use of renewable energy sources in small-scale generation at the level of households, small and medium-sized businesses. we will stimulate the use of renewable energy sources in small-scale generation at the level of households , small and medium-sized businesses .
This fall, we plan to sign such an important agreement. " smailov.
According to the head of government, it is necessary to develop cooperation in the field of financial markets, protection of the rights and interests of consumers of financial services and investors, trade and investment cooperation.
because of this variety, it is difficult to choose a small direction and focus on it. from this large variety , it is rather difficult to choose something narrowly focused , to focus .
the Government, together with the Accounts Committee, will conduct a three-month review of the effectiveness of government holdings and national companies. smailov.
head of the agricultural company of the Motherland and. Sauer informed the Prime Minister about plans to further expand the activities of the enterprise.
In the direction of a system of housing construction savings since 2017 in 10 months 2019 to the population 108.6 thousand concessional loans for the total amount of 1 trillion tenge are issued, from them within the state program of "Nrla zher" 19.1 thousand loans of 145.3 billion tenges are issued.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to review the format of working trips of deputies to the regions and to intensify work on organizing meetings of the first leaders and citizens in public reception parties.
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the joint session of the Houses of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at which it was decided to close the work of the fourth session of the VI convocation.
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan examined the work of the regional headquarters, examined the pace of restoration of residential buildings of the Spring-1, Spring-2 microdistricts, school buildings, kindergartens, the railway station, and the city hospital.
Prime Minister Askar Mama noted that the Kyzylorda region is faced with the tasks of improving the quality of life of the population of the first President of Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev and ensuring sustainable economic growth by realizing the existing potential of the head of state.
All citizens of the country are concerned about the condition of residents of the Arysian city, they offer their help. all citizens of our country are concerned about the state of the citizens of arys and provide all possible assistance .
from all sources it is planned to provide 7,482 apartments.
We propose to send the bill to parliament for consideration, "A. smailov summed up.
the volume of gasoline production will fully ensure the country's domestic consumption. the volume of gasoline production fully covers the domestic consumption of the country .
To date, Kazakhstan sells about 7.8 thousand items of medicines, the cost of half of which is regulated by the state.
creating new jobs is a priority task of the government, "said A. Mamin. the key task for us is creating new jobs , " said mamin , noting that solving the issue of productive employment directly depends on the development of the economy , increasing incomes of the population , and creating competitive industries .
Kazakhstan ranks 102nd in the World Bank's doing business ranking according to the international trade indicator, rising from 123 to 21 positions compared to last year.
A. Mamin noted that Kazakhstan adopted the State Tourism Program for 2019-2025, which provides for an increase in the share of tourism in GDP to 8% and turning it into one of the 5 leading sectors of the economy.
after amendments in September this year, the register of public services includes 723 services, of which 579 (80.08%) are available electronically.
The Prime Minister of Tajikistan noted that Kazakhstan is the second partner of Tajikistan in terms of trade.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Kassymbek, Minister of Health E. Birtanov, Minister of Internal Affairs E. Turgumbayev's reports on the ongoing work on the emergency site in the city of arys of the Turkestan region and the provision of medical assistance to the victims were heard.
Deputy Prime Minister told the Shymkents about the implementation of the priority tasks voiced by the president in a message to the people of Kazakhstan.
The head of government instructed to accelerate work on expanding the list of public services available to the population through mobile devices.
we were based on the Kazakh experience and studied everything possible.
The Prime Minister took part in an extraordinary session of the Karaganda regional maslikhat, where he supported the candidacy of Kassymbek, nominated by the Head of State for the post of akim of the region.
this sector can contribute to the growth of gross output up to 1.5%, "said A. Mamin, proposing to develop a digital map of the distribution of industry enterprises in the countries of the union.
The Prime Minister instructed to take measures to eliminate the debt on subsidies.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. In accordance with the strategic goals of Nazarbayev, as well as the instructions of the Head of State K. Tokayev, the development of the engineering industry has become one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for the development of rural settlements, a comprehensive program "village - cradle of the country" is provided.
all these activities will be reflected in the draft of the State Program for the Development of Education and Science for 2020-2025.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan, accredited to Kazakhstan with reports on assessing the state and prospects of Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO, as well as proposals to improve the investment climate in the country. moser, British Ambassador M. brousseau, European Union Ambassador Sven Olov Karlsson, Permanent Representative of Canada to the United States. Deputy Assistant Trade Representative z. Rayazuddin, vice president and country chairman of shell kazakhstan. lazar, managing director of the "omv petrom" visit, president of the "globalink" s. khan, partner of the "baker & mackenzie."
Currently, prices for wind and solar power are declining. now the prices for wind and solar electricity are reduced .
In the field of modernization of heating, water supply and sanitation systems, mechanisms for budget lending and subsidies are being implemented.
Deputy Chairman of kazakh tourism also noted the active development of Kazakhstan's national tourism product.
The Government has begun to develop a national action plan.
During the working trip, Prime Minister Askar Mamin got acquainted with the socio-economic development of the city of Baikonur, Kyzylorda region, as well as the conditions and prospects for the implementation of joint Kazakh-Russian projects in the space industry.
the fight against cancer should be carried out not only in a certain country or on the continent, which we consider an international problem. we believe that the fight against cancer should be conducted not only in a single country or continent , this is an international problem .
Fuel oil reserves are 103 thousand tons, which is 24% more than last year.
the air carrier pays attention to the flight date, the history of the operator. the air carrier pays attention to the date of the flight , to the user 's history .
among them are sappers, doctors, rescuers and local authorities.
In this regard, amendments to the order were sent to the Eurasian Economic Commission (EEC), which will allow to regulate the process of developing decisions and reduce the time for considering complaints, "said A. Mamin.
"constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan."
because the previous rules, on the contrary, forced to take low-cost seeds, "said A. Khojanazarov.
Today, harvesting is carried out in all regions of the republic.
in January-October, growth was 3.5%.
they actually tax this region.
Over the past 5 years, 590 billion tenge has been allocated for the development of roads of regional and regional significance and 15 thousand km of roads have been repaired.
During the speech, the novel noted that the sklyar has become a good platform for intensifying trade, economic and investment cooperation, giving impetus to the development of partnerships in such relevant areas as logistics, as well as opening up new opportunities for bilateral cooperation.
All engineering infrastructure has been completely repaired.
at the same time, places of placement of goods of domestic production for the convenience of the population will be indicated by a special sign "Made in Kazakhstan."
During the conversation with the governments and the head of the global public sector block of the investment and corporate bank citigroup, chairman of the board of Citibank Kazakhstan Andrei Kurilin, attention was paid to further strengthening cooperation in the field of financial policy, improving customs administration and implementing investment projects.
to do this, it is necessary to amend the legislation.
we must attract more young people to power. we need to attract more youth to power .
I am sure that kazymbek will justify this high trust, "said A. Mamin.
To implement and promote joint projects, the ascar specialist instructed to create a project office in Almaty and Almaty region.
according to the schedule for the supply of diesel fuel, 394 thousand tons were shipped to agricultural producers, including 366.5 thousand tons or 92.8% as of November 8.
people want to come more and be industry specialists, "the speaker said.
manager of the marketing, digitalization and communications department "kazakh tourism." tegenbaev, leader of the expedition a. akhmedzhanov, passenger b. ismagambets and press officer "kazaqgeography" a. Zhumataeva.
Askar Mama held bilateral talks with the captains of Turkish business, as well as a joint meeting in the format of a round table.
A. Mamin spoke about the investment climate of Kazakhstan, urging businessmen of the two countries to actively establish business ties, create joint ventures and implement projects of mutually beneficial cooperation.
intensive economy - the basis of well-being for all
The Netherlands is one of the main trade, economic and investment partners of Kazakhstan in Europe.
According to the head of the department, this, on the one hand, will minimize the conditions for concealing the income of recipients of targeted social assistance.
The volume of mining industry is 373.4 billion tenge (growth - 107.8%).
introduction of the possibility of paying customs and taxes through the electronic government payment gateway (the time is reduced to 1-3 minutes from 5-7 working day).
The expected volume of investments in 2019 will be 5357 billion tenge.
Currently, within the framework of the "economy of simple things" program, a number of regulatory legal acts and systemic measures for the development of the industry are being adopted.
As of November 11 of this year, the retail price of ai-92 gasoline in Kazakhstan is 148.5 tenge.
The poultry development program provides for the creation of new production facilities for the import substitution of poultry meat.
During the meeting, deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan with. Carpenters, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhabagiev touched upon the implementation of state programs, the implementation of the republican budget, as well as the development of the domestic auto industry.
in the future, the mobile application price scanner will be launched in other regions.
According to the results of 9 months of this year, the growth rate amounted to 4.3%.
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the signing of an agreement of intent on the implementation of projects for the production of the main transfer of leading belts in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the production of cast iron ingots for trucks.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting of the state commission to monitor the implementation of the Comprehensive Development Plan of the city of Askar, Mother Nur-Sultan.
Deputy Prime Minister Abdykalikova, in turn, noted that a number of measures should be taken to ensure the smooth operation of the compulsory health insurance system before the end of the year.
According to the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, the professional rights of teachers in the development and application of copyright methods of teaching and educating teachers, selection of textbooks, free use of information resources, advanced training and selection of courses and internships have been expanded.
It is planned to reduce 7 stopping points: if today 18, then they are planned to be reduced to 11.
these are western Kazakhstan, Mangistau regions.
After hearing the reports of the speakers, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the country's leadership fully supports the activities of akhko.
residents of the capital raised problematic issues related to the provision of medical care, social services, housing and medicines, employment and others.
The volume of production in the manufacturing industry increased by 23.8% and amounted to 446.6 billion tenge.
The project was implemented in strict accordance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international law in the field of industrial safety, labor protection and environmental protection.
the leaders in the introduction of housing during these years were the cities of Nur-Sultan, Almaty, Mangistau and Aktobe regions.
during meetings with young activists, scientists, entrepreneurs and athletes of the metropolis, Saparbayev answered questions from young people.
the operator of lending to rural areas and small towns - the Ministry of Agriculture, in cities and single-industry cities - the Ministry of National Economy.
the continuation of Tashkent Avenue and the construction of ring road a2 will also be ensured.
At the same time, the first President of Kazakhstan emphasized the importance of creating conditions for effective interaction between civil society and state bodies on the party platform.
Following the forum, the parties signed agreements on mechanical engineering, agro-industrial complex, pharmaceuticals totaling $75 million.
government and Atameken. " Nazarbayev and G. Tokayev worked closely to effectively implement the set strategic tasks to ensure high-quality economic growth and improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis, "said A. Mamin.
we must thank all of us for having a worthy, proud spiritual support that belongs to a person who is in the dark, "said abdykalikova.
all state bodies, national holdings and akimats should actively work to attract investment.
The tasks of the head of state to create a regional transport and logistics hub and develop the transit potential of the country are at the stage of active implementation, "said A. Mamin.
Prime Minister Askar Mama paid a working visit to West Kazakhstan region, in which the first President of Kazakhstan, the head of state, took part. a. The head of state got acquainted with the course of implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development of "Nrla zher" initiated by Nazarbayev, "Nr zhol" and also with performance of orders of the Head of state on development of economies of regions.
improvement of mechanisms of investment cooperation in agriculture, industrial cooperation, energy, transport and communications.
To date, a pool of projects in the amount of 12.4 trillion tenge has been determined. today a pool of projects has been determined in the amount of 12.4 trillion tenge .
On behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh Prime Minister paid a working visit to Almaty, during the visit he took part in an extraordinary meeting of the city maslikhat.
if they confirm participation, we can hold it in Turkestan.
to date, 15.1 million hectares of cereals have been collected with a total area of ​ ​ 15.2 million hectares, which is 99.2%.
together with axko ekkdb will continue the project to develop the country's capital market and increase its status in the msci global index to the level of developing countries.
there are potential investors and preparations are underway for a private financial initiative.
Develop a map of rural economy development and prepare relevant project documentation.
I am sure that this action will be widespread, will become an all-republican event and will receive support among citizens. i am sure that the action will become widespread , will become nationwide and will find a response among citizens .
Head of Government - Head of Roscosmos Corporation d. with Rogozin and Financial Director of one web, etc. held meetings with Wayne, with whom they discussed the development of the space industry in Kazakhstan.
A. Zhumagaliyev also noted that Kazakhstan is working on the introduction of new technologies.
for example, today the construction of a wholesale distribution center is being completed in Karaganda.
In addition, from September 1, scholarships of students in work specialties in Kazakhstan will grow by 122%, covering more than 30% of thousands of people.
leaders in housing commissioning: Turkestan, Kyzylorda, Aktobe, Kostanay regions and the city of Shymkent.
The Prime Minister, representing the new akim in the asset of Karaganda region, noted his great experience and high qualification.
they occupy 23 and 24 places in the ranking.
One of the most important tasks is the effective implementation of compulsory social health insurance.
Last year, we developed a large project for the construction of fiber-optic communication networks in the village. last year we started a large project for the construction of fiber-optic communication lines in the countryside .
the issue of attracting investment is the main issue for the development of the economy. the issue of attracting investment is the key to the development of the economy .
So, on the instructions of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan on November 23 of this year, a meeting of the tripartite commission was held in Kostanay, at which issues of labor relations regulation were considered.
The draft packages of medical care have been worked out in detail by experts, agreed with the health departments of the regions, interested state bodies, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, considered and approved by the public council of the Ministry of Health. " birtans.
In conclusion, Kassym-generous Tokayev gave a number of specific instructions to improve the socio-economic situation of the country.
In general, we can talk about a high degree of readiness for the introduction of a health insurance system and new approaches to the provision of medical care. birtans.
As a result, Kazakhstan has become a transcontinental bridge between Europe and Asia.
By August 5, the main restoration work in 6.7 thousand residential buildings was completed in the Arysian city.
Thanks to this, the impetus was given to the development of the city, "said A. Mamin, noting the positive dynamics in the main sectors of the economy.
The Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan this year will take additional measures on the republican charity event "Road to School," which has been held annually since 2008 in all regions of the country.
through the exhibition of history and culture you can get acquainted with the ancient and traditional art of the great steppe.
mining, construction, animal husbandry, cashmere, leather production and processing, deepening transit transport cooperation, and strengthening relations between the two countries within the framework of the Shui agreement on the creation of favorable conditions for international road transport.
On the results of harvesting at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan a. lobster reported.
growth in the manufacturing industry is provided mainly due to mechanical engineering, oil refining, non-ferrous metallurgy, light industry, pharmaceuticals and beverage production.
that is, create conditions not only for production, but also for the sale of domestic products.
The income plan (excluding transfers) is overfulfilled at all budget levels. the revenue plan for the reporting period ( excluding transfers ) was exceeded at all budget levels .
As of September 19 of this year, electricity consumption in the republic amounted to 73.1 billion kvz, which is 1.7% more than last year.
For the second year in a row, international auctions for the sale of large projects of interest to investors are successfully held online.
we must show that we have a high culture.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, bills on the status of a teacher and on amending legislation on the status of a teacher, reducing the burden on a teacher and a student were approved.
Russia is the main trading partner of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister instructed the Government for Citizens state corporation to work out means of distance education for citizens in districts, small towns, villages using digital technologies.
in Zhambyl, Pavlodar, northern, eastern and West Kazakhstan regions, similar facilities are currently being created, but they still need to be brought to the standards of the Karaganda region.
construction work is carried out in a 126 private house and 1 multi-storey building.
in fact, this money is intended to maintain social food corporations in the regions.
Askar Mama proposed a number of initiatives necessary to intensify mutually beneficial cooperation between the Caspian countries in trade, investment, transport, energy, tourism and environmental spheres.
A workshop on the development of the oil and gas industry was held on the territory of Novodevichy Pond with the participation of heads of state bodies, oil and gas sector enterprises and trade unions.
technical training;
All state bodies and akimats should begin to carry out the tasks immediately after the approval of this document by the president. immediately after the approval of this document by the president , all state bodies and akimats should immediately begin to solve the tasks .
Nevertheless, when conducting an analysis on the supply of interregional goods, we found that the akimats often do not know what goods are produced in their regions and where they are imported from, "B. sultanov said.
In his speech B. Saparbayev focused on all areas of education, health care, social support, etc.
The Head of Government instructed the central state bodies, national companies and akimats to reach the approved target indicators for attracting investments and ensure the fulfillment of the tasks.
Currently, the website of the Business Center has a project base for investors and a separate tab "one window," which contains links to the legislation on shares and concessions.
The first President of Kazakhstan noted the high pace of construction throughout the city.
this is an important and active category of the country, a manifestation of the great and special concern of the state for the young generation, which has intellectual and creative potential.
According to the Vice Minister, as part of the formation of the eighth package of legislative amendments to improve the business environment, proposals were made on data protection, powers to exchange and deliver data between government agencies, identification, authentication and authorization issues, data quality, electronic documents, electronic archiving, intellectual property rights and property rights in the database and others.
Akims of the regions need to ensure free access of domestic producers to shelves in retail outlets and carry out work to place them on the most outstanding or "golden" shelves, as it is called in trade, "B. sultanov said.
it will also consider a set of measures for the reconstruction of existing runways and the construction of new ones, the construction of air hubs, the development of airport complexes, the modernization of air navigation systems to bring them into line with the requirements of the international civil aviation organization.
The development of the main set of rules on simplifying investment procedures will help restore investor confidence in the markets of developing and least developed countries, the minister said.
Deputy Prime Minister instructed the Department of Employment and Social Protection of the city to solve this issue and provide people with disabilities with high-quality rehabilitation and hygiene products.
small, medium and large businesses have a number of advantages.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama during a working trip to the Turkestan region checked the progress of work on the restoration of affected houses, social facilities and engineering networks in the city of arys.
Within the framework of the dialogue platform for further development of investment cooperation, Prime Minister Askar Mamin held a regular meeting with the heads of diplomatic missions of the European Union member states registered in Kazakhstan.
The IMF mission comes to Kazakhstan twice a year for annual consultations in accordance with article IV of the IMF agreement.
It was noted that the head of state set specific tasks for the government, the solution of which will contribute to the further growth of the economy, the first president - the head of state A.D. on the basis of Nazarbayev's strategic directions will contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens of our country.
at the meeting of the President's Security Council, it is necessary to fulfill the task to improve the quality of life of citizens, provide the population with quality drinking water and water supply, regardless of whether it is a city or a rural area, "said Askar Mamin.
now we are developing rules for a housing certificate. we are developing rules for the housing certificate .
consumer debt for utilities amounts to 11.4 billion tenge.
10,606 independent boiler houses or 99.8%, 45,908 residential buildings (98.1%) were prepared in the regions.
all legislative norms have been adopted, the necessary funds have been allocated, "said Askar Mamin, adding that concrete measures should be taken to fully transfer and purchase socially oriented housing.
First President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, the national leader of the Azerbaijani people Heydar Aliyev and then every president of the Ilham Aliyev have established the principles of friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation.
The total number of projects of the program as of October 1 amounted to 1,253, the amount - 3.5 trillion tenge. as of oct. 1 , the total number of ppp projects is 1,253 worth 3.5 trillion tenge .
construction and installation work at large plants has also been increased.
According to the Minister of National Economy, in connection with changes in external parameters, three possible scenarios for the development of the economy of Kazakhstan are provided.
The Prime Minister also visited the service center.
In his speech, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that the policy of the head of state calls on the population to work and begins to apply mechanisms of state support.
Kazakh Prime Minister Askar Mama held a bilateral meeting with Afghan Prime Minister Abdullah Abdullah during his visit to Tashkent to participate in the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu).
Another easy way to get electronic services is the Telegram messenger and social networks.
During the investment forum, a long-term contract was signed for the supply of technical gas between airliquidekarabatanechgases and kazakhsanpetrochemicaldustries (kpi).
these documents address issues of open government and effective feedback to the public.
the main figures are known in the airline. the main numbers remain with the airline .
deadlines are not rescheduled.
The growth of livestock production is due to the successful implementation of lending programs in animal husbandry, "S. Omarov said that over the 10 months of this year, loans were issued to 806 farms for the purchase of 78.9 thousand head of cattle, for the same period last year - 412 farms for the purchase of 39.1 thousand heads.
the index of improving the condition of children will also be increased, "Saparbayev said.
China is Kazakhstan's largest trading partner.
prices for non-food products increased by 5.7% over the year.
Within the framework of the principle of recovery, the well-being of the population will continue to improve, measures will be provided to develop villages, support business, improve the environmental situation, and increase the efficiency of the financial system.
together with foreign experts, an analysis will be carried out on all sectors of the economy.
Governments all over the world today are concerned about this problem, so they are adopting programmes for the transition to rational use of resources, the use of wind, water and solar capacities.
I see many ambitious and purposeful people.
next year, travel along the main transit road corridors will be provided, "said A. Mamin.
annual inflation remained within the target corridor and amounted to 5.5%.
On November 16 of this year, we defined by law the concept of wholesale distribution centers and the competence of the Ministry of Trade and Integration to approve requirements for them. nov. 16 , 2019 , we also legislated the concept of a wholesale distribution center and the competence of the ministry of trade and integration to approve the requirements for them .
Persons holding international certificates and confirming knowledge of a foreign language are exempt from testing in the subject of "foreign language."
if children are engaged in sports, art, participate in various circles and sections, they have healthy, educational, educated, and most importantly, they do not commit offenses.
growth of taxes is caused by improvement of tax and customs administration and growth of economy.
This was reported by the press service of the acord.
Minister of National Economy of the Dalen River, akim of Turkestan region Shukeev, akim of North Kazakhstan region of Aksakalov, akim of Karaganda region of Kassymbek.
Kazakhstan is the leading partner of France in central Asia, "said French Minister of Economy and Finance B. le mer, the first president of the French side - the president of Kazakhstan. Nazarbayev and the President of France e. willingness to continue the strategic cooperation confirmed by the macron.
more than 100 model projects for the construction of residential, educational, health, water, sports and other facilities.
in this regard, there are great opportunities to further increase trade between Kazakhstan and Jordan and increase bilateral cooperation on food security, which is currently relevant throughout the world.
the government completed the working trip with a meeting with residents of the village of Evgenievka.
thus, the created conditions for doing business made our countries attractive to entrepreneurs and investors.
I instruct to develop state support measures for the wide use of renewable energy sources that stimulate their development, "said A. Mamin.
Specific target indicators are set for each central and local executive body and national holding.
all this resembles the construction of the capital.
at a meeting of the CIS in a narrow composition, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to form a proactive position in matters of further strengthening trade cooperation within the framework of the commonwealth, finding "new growth points" and attracting investment capital.
in Tashkent, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting of the XVIII joint intergovernmental commission on bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan with his Uzbek counterpart. Aripov.
if all countries of the world work together, then the risk of cancer will decrease.
these projects will significantly increase the level of sports among people with disabilities, will allow for training teams and international tournaments for national teams.
the first stage is the construction of fiber-optic networks.
A number of specific measures will be taken to develop the social sphere. a number of concrete measures will be taken to develop the social sphere .
During the forum, special attention was paid to practical aspects of the further development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries and business.
annual inflation rose to 5.5%.
investment will be an important factor in supporting economic growth. Dalenes.
The forum participants discussed the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan, prospects for the implementation of joint projects, assessed the investment climate of the country.
The act of commissioning will be signed before the end of this year.
and parents should contribute to this, "he said. Saparbayev during a meeting with the parents of young Karaganda residents.
the final interest rate is 2.5% per annum.
According to the head of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, for this it is necessary to continue the development of housing construction.
guests from all over the world come to Abay's homeland.
A system of regional standards for infrastructure development will be introduced in cities, district centres and villages.
the principle of justice is ensured by the further improvement of the judicial system, the improvement of public security, and the radical elimination of corruption at all levels.
during the reporting period, this industry grew by 4.7% compared to 4.2% in January-April.
we must support them, "Saparbayev said in his speech.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan a. Mamin became the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state. Nazarbayev instructed to ensure the achievement of target indicators for attracting investment, taking into account the tasks set at the expanded meeting of the political council of the nұr Otan party, and the instructions given in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan."
In 22,310 state orders, 80 student places were placed in a private school.
Issues of execution of instructions of the Head of State on solving social issues, which are a continuation of the strategy of the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev to increase the well-being of Kazakhstanis, were considered on the agenda.
in fact, it's zero.
A. Zhumagaliyev noted that as part of the implementation of the instructions of the head of state and the state program "digital Kazakhstan," systematic work is underway to provide Internet services to settlements of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
it is important for us to support subsidies for fertilizers, existing seeds.
One of them is the reconstruction of the central stadium named after Kazhymukan Munaitpasov, which will meet UEFA and iaaf standards.
In turn, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Roman Sklyar noted that the akimats are completing the repair of engineering and social infrastructure.
Deputy Prime Minister Kassymbek reported on the work of the project office for the development of industries of the "economy of simple things" and the program of preferential lending.
A. Mamin instructed the Ministries of Energy, Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan to provide control over the completion by the akimats of the regions of work on the preparation of all facilities for the upcoming heating season.
the cost of the facility is 50 billion tenge, about 350 new jobs will be created.
Among them are the republican budget for 2020-2022, the Code "On the Health of the People and the Health System," the new environmental code, and the bill on the status of a teacher.
The head of state noted importance of collaboration of the government and party "nr otan" for ensuring due supervision of implementation of the state and industry programs, including programs "nrla Gers", "nrla zhol" and industrial and innovative development.
of them abai, m, auez, w. Coudaiberdiules, eh. kekilbaev, a. zhubanov, etc.
For 5 months of this year, the volume of oil refining amounted to about 6.7 million tons, which is 5% higher than in the same period of 2018.
there are people who can travel abroad three times a year, but they spend at least one vacation in Kazakhstan.
workers - machine operators, specialists - local residents. workers are machine operators , specialists from the local population .
attracting investments and creating the most favorable conditions for the implementation of strategic investment projects. to attract investments and implement strategic investment projects , special attention is paid to creating the most favorable conditions for investors .
this will make it possible to determine the theoretical readiness of candidates, the level of their expert and constructive thinking.
among the three large groups of these tribes were the Sako-Tigrahaudy ("pigs"), located in the territory where the door mound with the burial of the "golden man" was found.
our main task is to adequately show Kazakhstan at the Tokyo Olympiad, "concluded B. Saparbayev.
In the next two years, the head of government proposed to hold cultural days of Mongolia and such days in Mongolia in Kazakhstan, as well as to consider the possibility of opening a cultural center in a dead city.
Improving public and business confidence and transparency in the exchange rate policy is one of the main priorities of the national bank.
within the framework of export development, the system will ensure mutual supply of goods, their transit through Kazakhstan, and will also become the basis for creating a single pool of producers together with our neighbors for export to other countries.
this bill should provide targeted, open and fair assistance to low-income citizens, give a new incentive to work.
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance A. Smailov, Deputy Prime Ministers Saparbayev reported.
In the new programme, priorities are directed towards the development of urban growth centers - four large agglomerations and regional urbanized zones, as well as support and satellite villages.
At the end of the event, the gulshara abdykalikova presented the winners with prizes for the best projects in the field of agriculture, industry and digitalization.
According to him, outstaffing (debt work) has been widely used in Kazakhstan in recent years.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, 5144 builders and 223 units of special equipment work at 3232 objects of individual housing construction and construction of multi-storey residential buildings (2989 objects per day).
The Head of Government visited Rakhat Shymkent LLP and examined the food production process.
Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Yelzhan Birtanov reported on the implementation of instructions of the first President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev on the transition to the mams system, implementation of the model of guaranteed amount of free medical care and fulfillment of tasks to improve the quality of medical services.
in this case, the task is to create favorable conditions for mutually beneficial and successful cooperation between enterprises and business partners.
"Unfortunately, two people died.
The head of government noted that the EU is one of the main investors and a major trading partner of Kazakhstan.
The head of government and representatives of the French company discussed the strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation between the business structures of the two countries and the implementation of new joint investment projects in Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister stressed that the use of ahko potential through the use of English law, structuring projects and co-financing creates attractive conditions for foreign and domestic investors.
Special attention was paid to the importance of solving the tasks set by the head of state to attract foreign direct investment, develop regions and provide targeted social assistance.
According to M. Kozhakhmet, in the next 3 years, 3 thousand rental apartments will be provided annually for young people working in the cities of nur-sultan, Almaty, Shymkent.
In addition, he noted that, taking into account international experience, for example, the London cunning "heathrow express," "like the Sheremetyevo airport" aeroexpress "in Moscow, in the building of the abu dhabi plaza, passengers are invited to consider the possibility of registering for flights and moving to the airport terminal on the principle of airport terminal.
they are aimed at changing the timing of competitions for grant and program-targeted financing, the composition of national scientific councils is updated, the requirements for their members are increased, changes are made to the rules for conducting state scientific and technical expertise, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
these documents address issues of open government and effective feedback to the population.
this will eliminate risks to the development of budget funds.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan discussed with the members of the Board of Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) the prospects and current state of implementation of joint investment projects in Kazakhstan.
The head of government proposed to develop an investment strategy for the CIS for the next three years, to use the opportunities of the international financial center "capital" (akhko) to intensify work on the exchange of best practices and mutual provision of financial services.
at the meeting, it was noted that the national economy continues to show faster pace.
the first level - the new GMC model defines the specific limits of state obligations and implements the generally accepted international standard for the general coverage of basic health services.
Also, the participants of the meeting were informed about the active work carried out in Kazakhstan in preparation for the ministerial conference.
in the future, it is planned to expand the production of enterprises in Kazakhstan before the production of equipment for telecommunications, renewable energy and infrastructure construction.
By the end of the year, a draft concept for the development of public administration will be developed.
The event was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev, First President of Kazakhstan - Executive Director of the Elbasy Asset Issekeshev Foundation, akim of Aktobe region.
students were interested in the implementation of state policy for the development of education, sports, and youth support.
in the territories included in the tourism map, priority is given to the top 10 territories selected by us within the framework of the state program, "K. Sadvakasov added.
The Teacher Status Bill is before Parliament.
In turn, the Head of Government noted the priority of ensuring the necessary working conditions.
3 heat supply projects are being implemented in Almaty, Akmola and East Kazakhstan regions.
The Head of Government noted that "the opening ceremony was attended by the President of Kazakhstan Tokayev K.
The ascar specialist examined the arrangement of the parts.
Askar Mama noted the need to actively work with potential investors and create favorable conditions for them.
these amendments will be submitted by the national bank to parliament in September this year, "said E. Dossaev.
responsibility for the welfare of the family should lie not only with the State but also with able-bodied family members.
on the Kazakh side, an airline scat has been appointed.
only half of the work planned for this year has been completed.
The work of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of the plan meets the principles of the election campaign: continuity, justice, growth.
4,000 jobs will be created during the construction period, after commissioning in 2023, the company's staff will be 650 people.
As of August 1 of this year, 8,636 private schools with 25 seats have been opened, by the end of the year another 5845 schools with 23 seats will be opened.
Following the meeting, the Prime Minister instructed the Ministries of Finance and National Economy together with interested state bodies, akimats of Almaty and Almaty region to take the necessary measures for the timely implementation of measures for the development of suburban areas, adjacent territories and to work out financing issues.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, restoration work in 5776 houses was completed by July 31.
all grant holders are awarded a scholarship in the amount of KZT20,949, as well as compensation for travel 2 times a year during the holidays (4 months) and a queue in the first order for a place in the hostel.
this meeting was the first joint discussion between Kazakhstan and Adb on the strategic vision and forecasting of Kazakhstan's competitiveness.
this will require more training of qualified personnel. " Dalenes.
The head of state also pays great attention to the effective development of cooperation with Singapore, adhering to continuity in foreign policy, "said A. Mamin.
Deputy Prime Minister examined the weightlifting, wrestling, basketball and swimming pool.
According to the minister, this year the reconstruction of the runways of Kostanay and Balkhash airports will be completed.
About the carried-out work on development of the draft of the State program of industrial and innovative development for 2020-2025 the minister of the industry and infrastructure development b. atamkul, the Deputy Attorney-General of m Akhmetzhanov reported on development of measures for protection of businessmen against raider and illegal actions of law enforcement and control authorities.
however, this type of state support should be temporary until the domestic market is saturated.
Recall that on the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan regarding generously Tokaev, the government commission will assess the damage caused to residential buildings, social and infrastructure facilities, life support facilities of the city.
others say that there was no industry, science, trade in Kazakhstan, there was a nomadic people. some say that the kazakhs allegedly did not have production , science , trade , only led a nomadic lifestyle .
adoption of the present agreement will allow to continue work on further development of cooperation in the monetary and financial sphere, to increase the role of the national currencies of the participating states of foreign trade and investment operations.
reconstruction and modernization of runways of Almaty, Peter and Paul, Taraz, Ural and Semipalatinsk airports.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, along with the introduction of compulsory social health insurance, it is important to improve the quality of medical services provided.
To intensify work with the business community to implement investment projects, expand the range of products produced and increase production volumes.
At the same time, Parliament is considering a bill on the status of a teacher, which provides for the expansion of professional rights, reducing the burden and improving the status of teachers.
our country has consistently implemented reforms aimed at improving the investment climate, ensuring open dialogue with entrepreneurs and improving infrastructure to attract investment.
the number of registered entities as of October 1, 2019 amounted to 1, 6 million units.
In general, we need to establish effective cooperation between the state and private partnership in order to ensure the sustainable socio-economic development of the country, "summed up A. Mamin.
The forum was attended by more than 200 people - plenipotentiaries of the business community, national companies, ministries and departments in the economy of the two countries.
samruk-kazyna is a national welfare fund.
The construction sector is developing at a steady pace.
According to 182 public services, business processes are optimized, the average number of documents is reduced by 30% - from 6 to 4, the average period of service provision - by 3 times - from 31 to 10 days.
by year of volunteer
you know the story of my life and success. you know the story of my life and my success .
if we talk about ethnics, living in houses, hunting for buokits, gastronomic tourism.
The ITU project portfolio varies.
this system was launched on September 1 of this year, and in other regions of the country it will be introduced only on January 1, 2020.
A regular meeting of the board of directors of the ubx baiterek was held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
As part of the message, the head of state instructed to modernize the tax system with a focus on the most equitable distribution of national income.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama and Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Ali Asadov took part in the ceremony of beginning the construction of "trans caspian fiber optic" (tcfo) for the construction of a fiber-optic communication line between the two countries at the bottom of the Caspian Sea in Aktau.
According to the Minister of Education and Science, this year the format of the championship has not changed.
Director General of the astana hub international technology park joseph ziegler noted that since the opening of the astana hub, some success has been achieved in the construction of launch ecosystems.
construction of industrial facilities, roads, gas pipelines, as well as construction and installation work at large plants.
Along with the expansion of political interaction, there is an increase in trade between the two countries.
the new plant will provide the agricultural industry of Kazakhstan with high-quality and reliable Kirovets equipment developed in the country, "said A. Mamin.
in non-ferrous metallurgy, production increased by 8.1%. sklar.
91 applications for lending in the amount of 1 billion tenge were approved.
The main aspect of the transition to low-carbon development in Kazakhstan is the development of renewable and alternative energy sources.
they are aimed at further developing the sphere of social security, physical culture and sports, housing relations of employees of special state bodies and military personnel, control over special goods, visual information and others.
To this end, since January 1 of this year, the minimum wage has increased 1.5 times, "said B. Nurymbetov.
we train them, we train, we direct to trainings.
First of all, we drew attention to those areas where we have weak positions - this is sports medicine and the creation of conditions for training athletes.
deputies - the mast of the party, the basis of the active electorate. deputies are the backbone of the party , the foundation of an active electorate .
today during a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister a.
the parties agreed to expand bilateral cooperation in the field of intercultural dialogue, preservation of historical and cultural heritage, promotion of joint cultural and spiritual projects.
Today, at a Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, a comprehensive development plan for the city of Shymkent until 2023, developed on behalf of the head of state, was considered.
they will be aimed at training additional knowledge necessary for work, improving the skills of reservists to work with the population, including public speaking, the ability to work in limited conditions and training others.
The Prime Minister stressed the importance of ensuring a systematic approach to the development of the region's economy and improving the quality of life of the population.
The increase of Kazakhstan's position in the doing business rating was made possible thanks to the systematic work carried out by the government to reform the current legislation, improve the permitting system, simplify business creation procedures, optimize state control and supervision activities and improve the business climate in the country.
subsoil users, manufacturers of excise products, participants in gambling, foreign economic activity.
then our children are raised, healthy, do not commit offenses, "he said. saparbayev.
In recent years, there has also been a positive dynamics of population growth, "said A. Mamin.
improving the business climate will ensure the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will contribute to the economic growth of the country and improve the well-being of the population.
To achieve the annual plan, it is necessary to intensify work in these regions. " sklar.
In the historical and cultural center of the city, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan checked the progress of the construction of the Yassaui Museum, the center "country of the great steppe," the regional scientific and universal library, the eastern bath, the reconstruction of the building of the national center of artisans of the great silk road, the visiting center, the restoration of historical objects of the cult town.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama during a working trip to the Turkestan region checked the progress of reconstruction of the residential sector, educational and health facilities in the city of Arys, as well as the construction of administrative, historical and cultural, social buildings in the city of Turkestan.
The 9th meeting of the Cooperation Committee of Kazakhstan - China was held in Beijing under the chairmanship of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov and Deputy Chairman of the State Council of China han Zheng.
According to the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development, in engineering the volume of production increased by 17.7%, which became possible due to an increase in motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers by 50.6%, machines and equipment not included in other groups by 14.5%.
for the second year in a row, the first president is the head of state. Thanks to Nazarbayev's message, the issue of financing local roads was raised. for the second year , thanks to the address of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev , financing of local roads was raised .
In addition, wind farms are gradually being commissioned in Kazakhstan.
The Head of Government noted that the country is actively working to improve the investment climate, expressed interest in continuing fruitful cooperation and readiness for close cooperation in the development of trade relations in all sectors of the economy.
In 2019, the country took 93rd place, improving its position by 13 points.
this is ensured by taxes.
So, if the plan requires 1,284 billion tenge, of which 836 billion tenge will be realized through private investments, 68.1 billion tenge will be realized through public-private partnership, "said akim Shymkent.
opening this path - the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state. a. is a symbol of the dynamic development of strategic partnership, defined by Nazarbayev and the President of Kazakhstan.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov, as well as Ambassador of Kazakhstan. moser, British Ambassador - Brousseau, European Union Ambassador - Sven Olov Karlsson, Special Ambassador of the Prime Minister of Canada to the EU and Europe. representatives of the dion, eidu, consulting company "ernst & young," etc., made reports on the current state and prospects for the development of economic competition in Kazakhstan, as well as proposals for improving policy in this area.
After the report, members of the Government of Kazakhstan approved the forecast of socio-economic development for 2020-2024.
coal mining companies produced 75.1 million tons of coal, which is 97.2% compared to the same period last year. coal mining companies produced 75.1 million tons of coal , which is 97.2 % compared to the same period last year .
The head of the Kazakh government noted that the joint project "trans caspian fiber optic" will make it possible to reach a high level of development of high-speed and secure data transmission infrastructure, become one of the leading European-Asian trunk routes and take a worthy place in world data transit.
a list of projects has been identified, the progress of their implementation is traced.
production is designed to provide lubricating oils to the domestic market of Kazakhstan and the countries of Central Asia, as well as China, Afghanistan and Mongolia.
with the participation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an agreement was signed "on a joint study of sites in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan" between the parties Lukoil and Kazmunaigaz uk.
This year, the state program "Business Roadmap - 2025" will be developed, within the framework of which business support will continue in a new format.
Thus, according to the global competitiveness rating of the World Economic Forum in 2018, Kazakhstan ranks 106th out of 140 countries in terms of road quality.
The Prime Minister noted that when determining the volume of transfers of a general nature for 2020-2022, the peculiarities of each region and their levels of economic development were taken into account.
It included the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan Birtanov, Minister of Health of Kazakhstan, Minister of Education and Science askhat aimagambetov, Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, bisakayev, Vice Minister of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan Daniyar.
Considering that the main reason for rising prices are resellers, it is important for us to create a modern infrastructure for trade and storage of goods, "B. sultanov said.
Russia is the main trading partner of Kazakhstan (Russia's share in the country's foreign trade turnover is 19.5%).
Kazakhstan is actively responding to these global trends, "the text of the appeal says.
for the development of water transport, it is planned to purchase 48 ships, including six for the merchant fleet, to overhaul locks.
we must bear in mind that there is too little time left before the end of the fiscal year. we must take into account that there is very little time left before the end of the fiscal year .
essays assess literacy, erudition, level of education, constructive thinking, logical thinking, validity and validity of candidates' conclusions.
The head of government instructed to work more actively to provide an "open sky" regime for foreign airlines at domestic airports, which will attract new foreign airlines, increase routes, and increase competition between airlines.
the chairman of the state corporation "Government for Citizens" spoke about the results of the work of the state corporation.
each event solves the most important issues for the development of modern Kazakhstan, "said A. Mamin.
at the same time, we rely on existing enterprises, that is, basic enterprises that can expand their production, they have experience, potential for feed base, established distribution channels. at the same time , we rely primarily on existing enterprises , that is , basic enterprises that can expand their production , they have experience , potential for fodder base , established sales channels .
A. Mamin instructed to ensure the adoption of the state program by the end of this year.
In turn, representatives of the Jordanian side expressed interest in the export of agricultural products to the territory of Kazakhstan, and also thanked the government of the republic for the warm welcome and noted the high level of relations between our countries.
in addition, the Dalenov drew the attention of the central and local executive bodies to ensuring the growth of basic economic indicators, ensuring control over investment projects, maximizing the season of construction and agricultural work and strengthening inflation control.
at the end, the head of state instructed the government to strengthen control over the budget process.
investment growth was 10.7%.
For 9 months of this year the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan amounted to $770 million.
The head of government visited the agricultural machinery park, the dairy complex and the Rodina agricultural company factory, and also examined the social infrastructure of the village of the same name - a hockey court, a secondary school, a supermarket and comfortable apartments.
During the working trip from July 17 to 18 this year, Prime Minister Askar Mamin visited oil and gas industry enterprises, got acquainted with the construction of new industrial facilities and held a meeting on the development of local content, oil and gas engineering and compliance with labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, Kazakhstan should maintain a proactive position on attracting investments, "said A. Mamin.
The head of state instructed by the end of the year to adopt the law "On the status of a teacher."
addressing the participants of the environmental action, the Head of Government of Kazakhstan called on the akims of all regions, environmental activists, youth organizations and volunteers to support this initiative.
In an interview, the deputy chairman of kazakh tourism also spoke about the general processes of tourism development, about what global changes have occurred in recent years, as well as about the development of the national tourist product.
The role and potential of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization has not yet been exhausted.
At the same time, prices in Russia are much higher for all food products, the minister said.
According to the results of 8 months of this year, the number of passengers served increased by 6.3%, 5.6 million passengers were transported, which is 1.8% more than the same figure last year.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that Askar Mama pays great attention to other projects on informatization and digitalization, which give a serious impetus to the introduction of 5g communication technologies in Kazakhstan, increasing broadband access to the Internet, as well as the development of the economy of Kazakhstan and increasing its competitiveness.
average per capita nominal monetary income of the population in January-July 2019 amounted to 686 thousand tenge and compared to the corresponding period of 2018 increased by 10%, in real terms - by 4.7%%.
given the current realities and the changing situation, we must coordinate all efforts, review existing approaches to implement the steps of the national plan and intensify work, "said A. Mamin.
According to the rice program, since the beginning of the year, three industrial commodity dairy complexes for 1,600 heads and 712 family commodity dairy farms for 8 heads have been launched (in 2018 - 6 family, 18 industrial commodity dairy farms for 7 thousand heads).
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Chakrabarti signed document on modernization of healthcare infrastructure of Kazakhstan
The price scanner functionality allows you to see the cost of the goods and feedback on their quality in all stores in the city, as well as compare and buy the goods at a minimum price.
The Prime Minister noted that Almaty, Zhambyl and East Kazakhstan regions are leading among the regions in terms of the number of renewable energy sources, while there is not a single renewable energy facility in West Kazakhstan and Aktobe regions.
B. As sholpankulov noted, the first block - the investment residency program - today is a fairly common phenomenon in the world.
funding for the social sphere is growing every year.
The first President of Kazakhstan congratulated the newlyweds and wished happiness and well-being.
effective and purposeful implementation of the election program and plan of the nation of Nr Otan party creates a strong basis for dynamic and high-quality development of our country today and in the future.
At the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the interim results of the project "starting a business" were summed up.
The Prime Minister instructed to create an interdepartmental commission to consider the possibility of Kazakhstan joining the conventions of the international labor organization and discussing topical issues of social and labor relations.
2.6 trillion tenge was allocated for social assistance and social security.
The housing and communal services unit provides for 30 measures.
buildings of akimat, media center, congress hall, nur-sultan square, first president's park, Olympic reserve sports school, music school, school palace with swimming pool, wedding palace, public service center buildings, as well as city park with attractions, music fountain, amphitheater, historical and cultural center under construction, construction site of arrival center, eastern bath, city arbat.
In these conditions, yesterday, September 9, the National Bank decided to increase the base rate to 9.25% and remained at the level of the percentage corridor +/-1 percentage points, "said E. Dossaev.
The head of the Kazakh government called on the Shu participating countries to use the ahko platform to test new financial products and technologies.
As part of the project "young entrepreneur" under the state labor program from July 22 to September 5 of this year, 18.3 thousand representatives of youth and large families were trained in 200 schools of the republic.
the largest debt falls on enterprises in the city of Nur-Sultan, Aktobe, Almaty and Turkestan regions.
Today, a press conference was held in the capital of Kazakhstan on the completion of the international expedition "Silk Road - the Path of Dialogue" on the site of the republican public association "Kazaqgeography."
our task is to make sports accessible to all citizens, including disabled people, "he said. saparbayev.
On June 28, repair work was completed to restore electricity supply to the Arys city and the Arys region, now the energy facilities in the city are ready for the heating season, he assured.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova took part in the VIII Eurasian Forum of leaders of higher education "ready for the future" at Nazarbayev University.
development prospects are expanding in the tourism sector.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted the high potential of integration of the eeo into the international transport network.
this work was carried out within the framework of chamber control in the risk management system.
Thanks to the planned measures in the next 3-5 years, we must eliminate the republic's dependence on imports and fully provide the country with all socially significant goods, "said A. Mamin.
it is necessary to increase the number of sports grounds, "said B. Saparbayev.
Next year it is planned to develop 2 new bills.
To date, 5 wholesale distribution centers in Karaganda, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, West Kazakhstan regions are being built to create a trade and distribution system with a deadline for completion in 2019.
The Head of Government congratulated on the opening of a new ferroalloy plant and noted the importance of a high-tech enterprise for the further socio-economic development of the region.
In the direction of shared housing construction, the Guarantee Fund plans for a total amount of 90.3 billion tenge and approved projects in the amount of 146.9 billion tenge.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama received representatives of the House under the leadership of the President of the France-Kazakhstan Chamber of Commerce and Industry Gerer Fries.
Of the 16 bills provided for in the draft plan, it is planned to introduce 4 bills to parliament in the first half of 2020, and 12 in the second half of the year.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development B. As Atamkulov noted in his report, the civil aviation industry today is one of the priority areas.
According to the deputy chairman of kazakh tourism, the state intends to increase the components of small and medium-sized businesses in the field of tourism.
As of November 11 of this year, the retail price for summer diesel fuel in Kazakhstan is 193 tenge.
According to him, the budget should finance the most effective and important socio-economic projects.
the founders of the joint venture are Kazmunaigaz LLP and citic kazakhstan.
The head of state, K. Tokayev, adhering to continuity in foreign policy, attaches great importance to the development of cooperation with the ranks, "said A. Mamin.
we are doing appropriate work.
19.1 million tons of grain were added.
First Deputy Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan M. Dosmukhambetov, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan b. atamkulov, akim of West Kazakhstan region of Escalyev, akim of Aktobe region about. Orazalin, akim of the city nur-sultan a. Kulginov, as well as the deputy prime minister of the river. Sklyar reported.
the measures taken will update the infrastructure of the country's hospital sector, meet domestic demand, improve the quality, accessibility and timeliness of medical services, and become a center of medical tourism for the countries of Central Asia and the CIS.
Within the framework of the working visit of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, agreements were reached with representatives of the American agribusiness on the opening of meat processing enterprises and the production of irrigation systems in Kazakhstan.
The head of government noted the need to strengthen systematic work to attract investment, which should be carried out daily at the regional and republican levels.
in this regard, it was proposed to use the opportunities of the international financial center of the capital.
in the context of the regions of Kazakhstan, the cities of Almaty, rehabilitation and aktobe are leading in terms of doing business.
The Head of Government instructed the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan together with interested state bodies to submit to the government the eighth package of amendments to improve business conditions by the end of October this year.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan held a workshop with the participation of an asset of the region.
B. The Mayor believes that Kazakhstan and France have every opportunity to move to a new level of cooperation, taking into account the prospects for cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, industrial spheres.
in the future, this information will be provided to neighboring Kyrgyz countries, Uzbek countries and domestic Turkish companies.
but, as you know, the situation did not allow it.
the first is a ban on transportation.
In turn, the ascar specialist confirmed the intention of the Government of Kazakhstan to continue fruitful cooperation.
this year, positive results have been achieved on infrastructure modernization.
Prime Minister Askar Mamin held a meeting on the development of the construction industry with the participation of heads of authorized ministries, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and representatives of the construction business of Kazakhstan.
production of refined products is growing by 3.1%, metallurgy - by 2.1%, chemical industry - by 8.9%, mechanical engineering - by 5.3%.
Therefore, we chose 4 directions.
to all Kazakhstanis.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, the number of developers involved in the reconstruction of the city exceeded 6159 thousand people.
The working group included the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan Nurymbetov, Vice Minister of Culture and Sports Yeldos Ramazanov, Vice Minister of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan Marat Azilkhanov, Vice Minister of Education and Science Sholpan Karinova, Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Kamalzhan Nadyrov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also provided with information on the measures taken to create convenient and high-quality conditions for service on the principle of "one window."
next year it is planned to launch a new production of panel radiators.
call centers of the Ministry of Education and the national testing center are working to quickly exchange information, "said A. Aimagambetov.
an invaluable find was called the "Kazakh Tutankhamun" and recognized as the "news of the century."
therefore, considering that all the akimats of our country have carried out a large-scale work to study the living standards of rural residents, including real incomes, to find opportunities to improve their living standards, we consider it necessary to carry out such work on social study, "B. Nurymbetov said.
modernization of the airport terminal of Uralsk airport and construction of a new airport in Turkestan has begun.
the number of cattle increased to 7.2 million heads, sheep - to 18.7 million heads, horses - to 2.6 million heads, birds - to 44.3 million heads.
non-payment of wages to employees should be ineffective for the employer, "said A. Mamin.
The Head of Government noted that despite the compliance with the established corridor (4-6%), in a number of regions there is an increase in prices for agricultural goods.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan in the framework of social projects visited the mobile employment center "Atameken Support Center" in the city of nur-sultan, a training center for training working specialties and a training center for beginner entrepreneurs "young entrepreneur."
a German investor who has invested in this project has long been developing renewable energy projects in Kazakhstan.
In this regard, we propose to use an integrated approach for the development of the village. " sklar.
Minister of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan B. Sultanov at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reported on prices for socially important food products.
Prime Minister Askar Mamin presented to the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), as well as to the staff of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development (iidm) new leaders - mukhtar thluber and peaceful chieftain, appointed today by decrees of the head of state-generous tokayev.
The representative of Shymkent Temir LLP begim Kudabayev applied for a ban on the transportation of scrap of ferrous and non-ferrous metals from Kazakhstan.
this is a credit rating at a.
He began his career as a mentor at the Institute of Asia and Africa at Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov (Moscow, Russia) and the Institute of Languages ​ ​ at Ense University (Seoul, South Korea).
The costs of exhibitions, conferences and round tables are also analysed.
The Ministry of Justice, together with sectoral state bodies, should pay special attention to the quality of bills introduced, "said A. Mamin.
During the working trip, the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was presented a master plan for the construction of the city of Turkestan and investment projects implemented in the Turkestan region were presented.
increased investment cooperation, implementation of joint infrastructure projects, development of the e-commerce market and potential for interaction within the EAEU.
challenges and prospects facing the business community were also discussed, as well as new ties were established between Kazakh and Belarusian business structures.
Agreement between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science of Mongolia on mutual recognition of documents on education, degrees and titles;
in agriculture, production increased by 3.6%, including crop production - by 3.9%, livestock production - by 3.5%.
it is planned to create conditions for professional development and increase the competitiveness of teachers, "said Askar Mamin. it is planned to create conditions for professional growth and increase the competitiveness of teachers , " askar mamin emphasized .
training is organized in four areas: animation, game development, web development and digital media, where attention is paid to dance, sports and music.
the functioning of domestic markets, international cooperation, customs and technical regulation, the digital agenda, the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
During the meeting, the parties discussed bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Jordan not only through parliamentarism, but also in other areas of mutual interest.
all medical organizations of the region are combined into one digital platform and integrated with republican information systems.
Prime Minister Askar Mama held a meeting with the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ekkdb) suma chakrabarti as part of a working trip to London.
On August 1 of this year, the joint-stock company "Aviation Administration of Kazakhstan" began to function with 100% state participation.
Since 2004, 1 million 775 thousand people took part in the testing.
industrial production increased by 2% in January-May of this year.
Today, at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the issue of increasing the share of local content in public procurement was considered.
The world's largest manufacturer of fast-manufacturing threads, cg foods central asia, has invested 5.7 billion tenge in the project and plans to provide work for about 300 Kazakhstanis.
He also noted that the quality of roads is improving from year to year, many roads are being repaired.
Rules for the presumption of the integrity of entrepreneurs.
From June 20 to 30 of this year, the championship is held in 169 points. from june 20 to 30 , the testing will be held at 169 points in 9 streams .
The exhibition will last until September 30.
thus, the bodies of the international financial center of the capital are entitled to adopt acts regulating labor relations and procurement procedures.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama held a meeting with the General Director of Rosat State Corporation Alexei Dashing.
The head of government personally tested the first Kirovets tractor in Kazakhstan.
and services exports increased by 15.8% to $7.3 billion.
at a meeting with the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the head of government B. Atamkulova was thanked for his work as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and wished him success in the activities of the head of state, and his subordinate - fruitful work as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
the number of lagging regions for construction and investment in fixed assets has been reduced. in the construction and investment in fixed assets , the number of lagging regions has decreased .
the center's offices operate in Paris, Moscow, Beirut and other cities.
3) the state provides children from low-income families with a guaranteed social package: children aged 1 to 6 years are provided with food, hygienic means and educational services, and from 6 to 18 years - with free hot meals in schools, daily free travel in urban public transport, school uniforms, educational means.
competition should be everywhere, especially among students. competition should be everywhere , especially among students .
the main value of a person at all times is his health. the most valuable asset of man at all times was health .
this is the preparation of relevant documents and the organization of ways to sell goods for training, credit and support.
reconstruction work is being carried out at an accelerated pace, completion is planned on time, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The safety and stability of workers should be the first priority for all employers, "said Askar Mamin, noting that the maritime situation is under special control.
Concrete measures to implement the message of the head of state will be devoted to tomorrow's government meeting.
Together with Atameken, we have a strategic task - to bring this indicator to 35% by 2025 and bring it to 50% by 2025.
therefore, the government and the faction need to carry out systematic work and jointly solve specific issues of the country, "said the party chairman.
Considering that this indicator is formed according to the data of state revenue bodies and only for Kazakh taxpayers, this norm also supports domestic business, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
In Kazakhstan, the volume of passenger air transportation is growing - for 8 months of this year, 5.6 million passengers were transported in civil aviation, which is 1.8% more than in the same period last year.
It should also be noted that in the name B. Saparbayev took part in the festival "blanket fest."
According to the results of 5 months of this year, housing was provided to 116 large and low-income families, 610 million tenge was allocated as part of targeted social assistance.
More than 30 billion tenge was invested in the water supply and sanitation sector, implemented in the regions of the country.
Turkestan is the cradle of the Turkic world.
accordingly, the Government has initiated proactive efforts to attract investment through all State support measures and the creation of a favourable investment climate.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, 5051 families have returned to their homes today.
The head of government and representatives of French companies discussed the strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation between the business structures of the two countries, as well as the implementation of joint projects in the fields of energy, modernization of water and housing and communal infrastructure, digital health care, biometric systems, automotive, transformer production, the creation of space satellites, etc.
According to the results of 2019, it is planned to produce 19,759,5 million cubic meters in the West Kazakhstan region. m of gas and 11.4 million tons of oil.
Based on the strategic direction, based on the specific interests of various social groups, specific requests of the people should be satisfied, "said the party chairman.
at the meeting, the people's writer a. Rzaev, President of the Azerbaijani Pen Club, People's Writer C. Abdullaev, People's Artist, Film Director Fr. President of the Azerbaijan-Kazakhstan Friendship Society named after Mirkasimov and Aliyev, Professor e. gunaidin.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev noted that he pays great attention to the development of Almaty.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin received members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry "France-Kazakhstan," headed by the co-chairman of the Franco-Kazakhstani Business Council yves-louis darricarer and representatives of the movement of French enterprises (medef).
their liquidation will have an economic effect of 3.3 billion tenge.
summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of the digital agenda and instructed to intensify work on the introduction of digital solutions in the economy.
today, about 1.8 million respondents are loaded into the system.
The main purpose of the visit is to explain the priority directions of the head of state's message to the people of Kazakhstan.
Minister of National Economy in the relevant areas of the river. Dalen, Minister of Health e. Minister of Education and Science a. Aimagambetov, Minister of Agriculture with. Lobster, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development with. Minister of Sklyar, Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources M. Myrzagaliyev, Minister of Justice M. Beketaev, First Vice Minister of Energy M. Dosmukhambetov.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. atamkulov, Managing Director for White Transport and Logistics "Samruk-kazyna" K. Alpysbayev, Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan K. bozumbayev, President of Air Astana AK Foster.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev belongs to this region, the city of Semipalatinsk, with special concern.
the president instructed to ensure the effective implementation of the instructions given at the expanded government meeting, as well as the timely and high-quality implementation of all restoration work in the city of arys.
summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister gave a number of specific instructions to the relevant ministries and departments, noting that in general the main construction work has been completed in the city.
During the meeting, the President announced the main parameters of the draft republican budget for the next three years.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting at which the first President of Kazakhstan, the head of state, spoke. The progress of execution of instructions of Nazarbayev and Head of State Tokayev on restoration of the Arysian city was considered, the results of construction and repair works were summed up.
In addition, the head of government got acquainted with the work of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry tr.
budget expenditures on investment projects amounted to 1.4 trillion tenge.
In the current year, new camera control procedures using electronic invoices have been introduced.
in this regard, I assume that cooperation in the field of agriculture is a priority. in this regard , i believe that cooperation in the field of agriculture is one of the priorities .
in the future, however, Kazakhstan could play an important role in ensuring it.
We pay special attention to strengthening and strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation with Afghanistan. we attach particular importance to strengthening and expanding mutually beneficial cooperation with afghanistan .
the Prime Minister was informed about the ongoing work on gasification and water supply of the city, the construction and reconstruction of hotel complexes, the creation of Baikonur in the city of Baikonur.
social support should not lead society to understand what the state feeds, "B. Saparbayev noted.
we received hygiene products only yesterday, their quality is also too low, "said E. solonic.
Prime Minister Askar Mama received a delegation led by the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Uzbekistan (nr) Zhamshid Khojayev.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held talks with Dutch Prime Minister Mark rutte as part of his official visit to the city of Askar, and also took part in the opening of the Kazakh-Dutch business forum.
The complex is built according to the system of "gold" standard, which meets the requirements of international jci.
The head of government and ministers spoke about measures to improve the investment climate, the main strategic priorities of the country in terms of the economy and well-being of people and answered questions of interest to members of the board of directors.
compared to 6.7% in 4 months of this year, growth increased to 7.8%.
The head of government was presented with expert estimates and forecasts of the IMF on the economic situation in Kazakhstan, which are included in the final statement of the mission following the November visit of fund employees to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a. Mukhamediuly also thanked the Turkish Ministry of Culture, the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Turkish Republic, the international Turksian team that assisted in organizing the exhibition.
from eighth to sixth place.
foreign trade turnover in January-August of this year increased by 1.8% and amounted to $62.1 billion.
one of them is the development of the workout movement.
Priorities of the republican budget expenditures for 2020-2022 will be aimed at further implementation of the annual messages of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan and the announced initiatives of the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
such institutions operate in Israel, India, China, baa, Colombia, South Africa, Japan, contributing to the provision of systematic state support for the development of new technologies and innovative projects.
it is the sustainable development of the economy and infrastructure, the provision of affordable housing, as well as the improvement of income and the quality of life of the population by improving education and health issues.
According to the results of the regional center, the Prime Minister instructed to continue developing applied projects and strengthen measures to commercialize scientific results.
every house, every city is the wealth of Kazakhstan.
The construction sector is one of the main drivers of growth and diversification of the economy of Kazakhstan. the construction sector is one of the key drivers of growth and diversification of the kazakhstani economy .
Head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (ecocdb) in Kazakhstan a. capannelli noted the positive dynamics in the economic and investment policy of Kazakhstan.
During the visiting visit, the Prime Minister was informed about the state of the region in the field of heat, water and energy supply, as well as about the work of local subjects of natural monopolies.
To improve the working conditions of medical workers, the draft new code "On the health of the people and the health system" provides for an increase in the image of the profession, the introduction of social and financial incentives.
On the basis of the macroeconomic forecast, budget parameters and the forecast of the National Fund for 2020-2022 were developed.
As the head of state at a recent meeting of Nr Otan fraction noted, the new five-years period of the program "Nrla zhol" is one of the main state programs aimed at the further development of transport infrastructure and transit capacity of the country", - A. Mamin told.
the first scheduled overhaul at Kashagan was completed successfully. the first major overhaul was successfully completed at kashagan .
The volume of yeast electricity production for the 10 months of this year amounted to 1.7 billion kWh, which is 65% more than in the same period of 2018. the volume of renewable energy generation for 9 months of this year amounted to 1.7 billion kw / h with an increase of 65 % compared to the same period in 2018 .
During the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the leading industrial enterprises of Tatarstan, in particular, kamaz.
David hale noted the attractiveness of Kazakhstan to Kazakh investors.
the government has taken all necessary measures to implement the comprehensive development of the capital. the government has taken all necessary measures to implement the integrated development of the capital .
today, the State is fully fulfilling its social obligations.
The head of the industry - Saryarkaavroprom LLP inspected the production workshops where the assembly, unification and painting of the bodies of cars and trucks, buses are carried out.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the city of Turkmenbashi on a working trip to participate in the Ust-Kamenogorsk and Caspian economic forums.
At the regular meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the implementation of the State Program for the Development of "Labor" Productive Employment and Mass Entrepreneurship for 2017-2021 was considered.
gradually it becomes a year of volunteers.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a working meeting on automotive industry and agricultural engineering in Kazakhstan, at which the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan R. sklyar, Minister of Agriculture with. Lobster, akim of Kostanay region a. Mukhambetov, Governor of East Kazakhstan region of Akhmetov, as well as heads of a number of enterprises, including the head of Astana group n. smaguls, "kamaz." kogogin, director of the "china national vehicles import and export corporation" wu and. silver, general director of Gomselmash JSC a. Novikov.
The International Monetary Fund and the Asian Development Bank have raised the forecast of economic growth of Kazakhstan for 2019-2020.
At the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the confidence of the international financial centers of the world in ahko.
the project is implemented jointly with the Turkish company yda holding.
therefore, the State and society must work effectively in that direction.
modular house building is a modern advanced housing construction technology used in Germany, Singapore, China and other countries.
Kazakh athletes won more than 20 awards, including a gold medal (olga shishigina) in 2000 in Sydney and a gold medal in 2012 in London (olga rypakova).
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. Nazarbayev and Tokayev pay special attention to the full restoration of the Arysian city and ensuring the sustainable life of the city.
our task is to improve the business environment, which will contribute to the growth of the economy. our task is to improve the business climate , which will contribute to economic growth .
I am sure that the fraternal Turkic states will help us, "the head of state said.
During the talks, issues of further development of investment cooperation in industrialization, engineering, oil and gas industry, energy, agro-industrial complex, pharmaceutical industry, financial sector were discussed.
Within the framework of the meeting, the Vice Minister of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan spoke about the implementation of youth policy.
trade rules, stabilization funds and credit networks, wholesale distribution centers, monitoring and verification of intermediary operations.
we consider adb as a strategic partner, which is one of the leaders among international financial organizations in the number of projects implemented in Kazakhstan, "said A. Mamin.
The Prime Minister noted the need to hold permanent joint cultural and sporting events, exchange creative teams and scientific institutions.
in addition, in the coming year, 2 bills will be submitted to parliament arising from the national action plan for the implementation of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan dated September 2, 2019.
M. Daeshov noted that a lot of work is being done in this direction.
The meeting was also attended by the Minister of Health of the Yelzhan Birtanov, the Minister of Education and Science of the Askhat Aymagambetov, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Nurymbet Exchange.
As part of the working trip to Turkestan, Prime Minister Askar Mama held a meeting on the development of the city.
As of November 1 of this year, 46% of small and medium-sized businesses took advantage of the amnesty, which paid 13 billion tenge in taxes.
During the meeting, issues of improving the quality of education, improving the material and technical base, improving the status and material support of teachers and other relevant issues were discussed.
Including "startup business," "young entrepreneur," short-term professional training, the provision of grants and microcredits to startup projects.
At the construction site, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was presented information on the current modernization and gasification of energy sources Zheo-1 and Zhe2, the readiness of the energy complex for the upcoming heating season.
the largest number of jobs is planned in the fields of tourism, transport, hunting, trade and act.
The Association of Turkish and Turkish Businessmen was created in 2016 in honor of the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan and diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey.
secondly, this is a high level of bureaucratization and the slow introduction of modern technologies, digitalization, "said A. smailov.
For his part, the President of Kazakhstan expressed interest in financing projects to modernize the health infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
the number of international air routes reached 99. atamcules.
clarification is proposed to be carried out in compliance with the indicators of the country's socio-economic development forecast for 2019, adjusted in April of this year, "said A. smailov.
The average readiness for the heating season for 31 healthcare facilities of republican importance is 99%, for 5640 facilities of local importance - 97%.
The Prime Minister instructed not to reduce the pace of work on the restoration of affected business facilities, transport and engineering infrastructure, as well as to take a set of measures for the preparation of health and education facilities.
the updated model of division was developed in accordance with the instructions of President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, voiced in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan."
It is necessary to make every effort to timely achieve the goals set by the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in strategic documents, and fulfill the instructions of the Head of State during a working trip to the region.
During the reporting period, the state budget received revenues in the amount of 3.8 trillion tenge, which amounted to 105.4% of the plan.
a. according to Smailov, for this, the government will continue to work on diversifying the economy and will intensify the functional analysis of the activities of both state bodies and the quasi-public sector.
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the signing of documents on cooperation in the field of agriculture by the Government of Kazakhstan and American companies.
the first is programs implemented in countries such as Aksh, Canada, Spain, as well as Latvia and Greece, which provide a residence permit for investment.
We hope that the adoption of the law will attract sought-after young and talented personnel to our schools. " kuttybaeva.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov said that during the years of implementation of the second five-year plan of the road map concrete results were achieved.
The Government of Kazakhstan will continue to work to improve the availability and quality of medical services.
we will give him maximum support, wish him good luck and victory. we all cheer for him , wish good luck and victory .
all houses are in the final stage, interior decoration and installation of home equipment are carried out.
Issues of development of livestock production, the course of implementation of the state program of "Nrla zher", continuation of construction of the project of easily rail transport in the city the nur-sultan are considered at a meeting of the Government under the chairmanship of the prime minister of RK Askar Mamin.
According to A. Algeranov, there is steady growth in the development of international transport.
this is about 6868 workers and 265 units of special equipment.
Note that on August 1, 90% of all houses affected by explosive waves were restored in Lviv.
Vice Minister of Trade and Integration reported on measures taken to improve Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating, as well as in the global ranking of logistics efficiency (lpi).
During his visit to Turkestan, the head of state got acquainted with the work of the new wedding palace and talked with the newlyweds who raise shanyrak.
One of the instructions of the head of state is the employment of the population.
the project will create tens of thousands of new jobs in agriculture in Kazakhstan, "said A. Mamin.
769 independent boiler houses installed in violation of general building codes and regulations were identified, 39 of them in apartment buildings, 730 at educational facilities and social and cultural life.
Deputy Prime Minister G. Kassymbek, in turn, noted that the section "recovery" of the action plan provides for measures aimed at the dynamic development of the economy, infrastructure, affordable housing, the environment and the creation of a modern village.
As part of the special project "Village - cradle of the country" in the Akmola region in 2019, 19 projects are provided, 8 of which have already been signed.
The Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry of Kazakhstan is the report on the prospects and state of development of cybercrime in Kazakhstan, as well as proposals for improving policy in this area. Zhumagaliyev, Deputy Minister of the Interior a. Kalaichi, Ambassador of Kazakhstan, registered in Kazakhstan. Moser, Ambassador of Canada N. Brousseau, Ambassador of the Netherlands a. Karstens, British Ambassador M. Gifford, Charge d'affaires of the European Union ramunas janusauskas, as well as representatives of ericsson, microsoft, honeywell, citibank, mastercard.
State grants for young people are allocated.	there are state grants allocated for young people .	1,11
For the development of the capital, 10 projects will be implemented this year, including 3 for the construction of water supply and sanitation networks, 2 for road projects, etc.	in addition , 10 projects will be implemented for the development of the outskirts of the capital , including 3 projects for the construction of water supply and wastewater networks , 2 road projects , and others .	1,11
of course, the situation in the world market should be taken into account.	of course , it is important to take into account world market conditions .	1,11
this is about 30-40% of seats on the plane, the cost of tickets to other places will be different and expensive, "said A. Algeranov.
the main task is to support working youth. "
Kyzylorda, Aktobe and Turkestan regions - leading regions for housing construction, Pavlodar, Bashkir, Mangistau regions and the city of Nur-Sultan lag behind and have problems with the development of funds.
The sides discussed the prospects of cooperation in a wide range of areas - trade and economic, investment, transit and transport, agriculture, information and communication, digital, tourism, jewelry, pharmaceuticals, health and education, green economy and water, as well as ahco, world bank, IMF.
The country should enter the top 40 countries by 2025.
- All akims and heads of state bodies should pay the most attention to attracting investments, developing small and medium-sized businesses.
The Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin reviewed the implementation of the State Program for the Development of "Labor" Productive Employment and Mass Entrepreneurship for 2017-2021.
The city is divided into 17 sectors, in which 6,542 builders and 252 units of special equipment work.
The results of the analysis will be taken into account in the State Industrialization Program for 2020-2025.
this is due to budget support, high growth in retail lending, as well as investment projects in the oil and gas industry, "the IMF mission said in a final statement.
This 15-year tariff is given by the settlement and financial center, "A. Ospanova explained.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan expressed interest in further development of investment cooperation, implementation of joint projects in the field of transport infrastructure, digital technologies, human capital.
the project proposes to increase the government reserve by 72.9 billion tenge.
In addition, an intergovernmental agreement on international transportation of mixed goods, a protocol of action on the joint economic program "New Synergy" for 2019-2021, as well as a memorandum of understanding aimed at developing cooperation between the Ministry of Trade and Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Trade on products of the Halal category were signed.
The head of government noted the need for joint work on entering the agricultural markets of third countries.
Shymkent is one of the industrial, commercial and cultural centers of Kazakhstan, "the head of government said and gave a number of specific instructions to ensure the further development of the city.
in particular, large-scale cooperative projects can be implemented in industry, bank, transport and other sectors.
The prime ministers of the two countries noted the high level of strategic partnership and alliance, founded and developed by the first president of Kazakhstan - head Nursultan Nazarbayev and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The Prime Minister instructed to take all necessary measures for the quality and timely implementation of grain crops, first of all, to provide agricultural producers with fuel and lubricants.
The Prime Minister instructed to continue the implementation of large infrastructure projects, including in the field of transport and energy, housing and communal services, for this purpose it is necessary to work out the necessary changes in legislation taking into account international best practices in business development.
Heads of regions, cities nur-sultan, Almaty and Shymkent also spoke during the meeting.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Nurymbet Exchange, Minister of Education and Science Askhat Aimagambetov, Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Vice Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Vice Minister of Information and Public Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of non-governmental and youth organizations, business communities, creative and scientific intelligences.
the share of private kindergartens increased - 37.9%, which is 1.6% more than last year.
the state is carrying out large-scale work to improve the well-being of its citizens. the state is doing a lot of work to improve the welfare of its citizens .
askar mom got acquainted with the work of the workshop on enrichment and extraction of metals.
Askar Mamin noted the need to develop and introduce legislative changes.
in general, the development of technology will affect job cuts.
According to him, special attention is paid to anti-doping work.
Nursultan Nazarbayev. "
therefore, it is important not only to harvest in a timely manner, but also to carry out work without maximum costs.
according to the new method, 3477 promising villages were selected, in which 6.6 million people or 85% of the rural population live.
The register of public services includes 723 public services, of which 580 or 80% are provided in electronic format, 648 services or 89.6% of services through the State Corporation "Government for Citizens."
production increased by 3.7%.
The plan of concrete measures, approved following the results of the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, will have a positive impact on the further development of our economy, "said A. Mamin.
These issues were also touched upon during the working visits of Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev.
in particular, ensuring a stable economic situation, improving the quality of administration of budget revenues, withdrawing from fiscal centralization and increasing the independence of regions and optimizing budget expenditures, etc.
category i - full reimbursement from the investment budget and operating costs of a private partner.
As part of the implementation of the presidential decree on measures to reduce the debt burden of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government and the national bank, together with banks and microfinance organizations, are working in two areas.
in the fuel and energy complex, information systems "intelligent fields," "digital mines," oil accounting, automation of control of modes of a single electric power system are introduced.
all mechanisms of the state employment program have been launched.
From September 1, children from low-income and large families will be additionally allocated 5 thousand targeted educational grants, and scholarships of working specialties will increase by 30 percent, "said Askar Mamin and instructed to ensure the provision of these grants.
Deputy Prime Minister in the message "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" spoke about measures to implement the tasks set by the President of the country.
The Prime Ministers of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kingdom of the Netherlands took part in the opening of the Kazakh-Dutch business forum, within the framework of which 5 documents were signed with the participation of the heads of government of the two countries:
Prime Minister of Uzbekistan A. Aripov noted the strategic significance of this event for neighboring fraternal Kazakhstanis and Uzbek countries.
In his speech, the Deputy Prime Minister reported on measures aimed at solving the tasks set in the message of the President of the country to the people of Kazakhstan.
I recommend that the ECE analyze the presence of our agricultural products in foreign markets, determine the list of goods with which we compete, and propose specific measures to increase exports, the Prime Minister said.
Work is underway on the rest.
Since April of this year, the poverty threshold increased from 50% to 70% (from 14,849 to 20,789 tenge), as well as targeted social assistance for each child from low-income families was set in the amount of actual 20,789 tenge. since april 1 , 2019 , the poverty line has increased from 50 % to 70 % ( from 14,849 to 20,789 tenge ) , and targeted social assistance for each child from a low-income family has been set at 20,789 tenge .
Head of State K. Tokayev in his message to the people of Kazakhstan instructed to resume the work of the national commission on modernization created by the head of state.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Kazakhstan, Kazagro Holding JSC, kazakhexport export insurance company, white representatives of kazakh invest uk, President of the National Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Mongolia. amartuvshin, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Light Industry of Mongolia. Minister of Mining and Heavy Industry of Mongolia made a report. Sumyaabazar.
Funding for the purchase and construction of rental housing for young people, which works in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, is increasing. by order of the head of state , the amount of funding for the construction and purchase of rental housing for working youth is increasing .
As part of the working trip, the head of government noted that the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. reviewed the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development initiated by Nazarbayev, the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Tokayev on the development of the economy of the regions of the country.
stable transport and logistics system. a stable transport and logistics system has been formed .
we are open for industrial cooperation in the production of communication satellites, the implementation of joint investment commercial projects at the Baikonur cosmodrome, "said A. Mamin.
In October, Asar Mama "wildberries" held a meeting with the general director of the leading Russian international online store Tatyana Bakalchuk, at which the company's plans to build trade and logistics centers and expand business in Kazakhstan were discussed.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to the Russian Federation.
The Kazakh-Belarusian business forum was held as part of the official visit of President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko to Kazakhstan.
in general, as the Minister of Education and Science assured, the work to improve Kazakhstan's position in international ratings on improving the quality, accessibility of education and science will be continued within the framework of the state program for the development of education and science and other systemic measures.
Swiss business in agriculture, transport and financial sectors, mining and manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, etc., of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to one of the leading industrial regions of Kazakhstan in Aktobe region.
the data of each citizen should be updated, "said A. Mamin.
on measures taken to introduce digitalization in the mining complex, manufacturing, agro-industrial sector. Sklyar, Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan with. Lobster, Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Zhumagaliev, Vice Minister of Energy a. Magauov reported.
in addition, the regions provide the construction of wholesale distribution shopping centers, shopping facilities and market modernization.
economic activity will improve the well-being of the population. " Dalenes.
In order to further improve the effectiveness of stabilization funds, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted, it is necessary to conduct inspections of the activities of stabilization funds, reconstruct their work and promptly conduct purchases for commodity interventions.
our task is to maintain long-term leadership. our task is to maintain long-term leadership .
at the same time, there is an increase in the volume index by 0.4% and by the end of the year is expected to be + 1.8%, "said B. atamkulov.
The sides discussed the prospects of further development of cooperation in the field of agriculture and within the framework of the project "aul - cradle of the country" in the field of support for rural development, housing construction, tourism and other sectors of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
before the start of the event, the heads of delegation met with Jeenbek.
this is evidenced by the high level of bilateral political dialogue, which lasts many years, "said A. Mamin.
this information will be provided to neighbouring Kyrgyz, Uzbek and domestic tour operators.
First President of Kazakhstan N. thanks to Nazarbayev's policy, the basis for the progressive development of Kazakh-Mongolian relations was laid. thanks to the policy of the first president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , the foundation has been laid for the progressive development of kazakh-mongolian relations .
the second type of program offers obtaining an investment visa and tax residency of the country (that is, an investment tax residency program).
One of the main tasks of our ministry is the unification of transport, logistics and trade infrastructure. one of the main task of our ministry is the integration of transport and logistics infrastructure with trade .
This year, the Light Portfolio project will be implemented.
The head of state also noted the work of the nұr otan party faction in the majilis and maslikhats, noting that the rating of the nұr Otan party is formed as a result of the work of deputies of all levels.
a. According to Smailov, from January 1, 2019, article 14 of the law "On Public Procurement" established the government of Kazakhstan the right to withdraw from the national regime, including in order to support domestic producers.
last year, the volume of food wheat amounted to 93%.
954 households received loans for the purchase of small mother stock in the amount of 337.4 thousand heads, which is 223.9 thousand heads and 624 farms more than in 10 months of 2018.
As noted by the chairman of the board of the investor company a. Hussein, the investment climate in Kazakhstan is favorable and all conditions have been created for the implementation of projects for investors.
now 115 schools are being built at the expense of the republican budget, 57 of them are being surrendered this year, 79 schools are being built at the expense of the local budget.
compared to the first stage of the forecast in April this year, we revised the dynamics of imports for 2019. compared to the first stage of the forecast in april 2019 , we revised the dynamics of imports for 2019 .
manufacturing, fuel and energy, agro-industrial complex, tourism, transport and logistics.
As part of the large-scale event, exhibitions were held with great success in museums in Belarus, Russia, Azerbaijan, China, Poland and South Korea, Uzbekistan.
We urge domestic business to actively participate in these processes and try to create favorable conditions for Kazakh and foreign investors, "said A. Mamin.
the State creates all conditions for such families to open their own business and improve their social situation.
The Head of State has repeatedly stressed the importance of attracting foreign investments in non-resource sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan. the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev has repeatedly noted the importance of attracting foreign investment in non-resource sectors of the economy of kazakhstan .
The head of state noted the special importance of providing new approaches in order to give a serious impetus to the development of the country's economy, stressing that this requires a coherent work of the government, the presidential administration and the expert community.
A decrease in the indicator is observed in three regions - Mangistau region, the cities of nur-sultan and shymkent, "the minister said.
Kazakhstan supports the idea of ​ ​ reforming the WTO and adheres to the position that reforms should provide a single competitive environment for international trade for all WTO member countries.
we must be prepared for this.
I am the mother of seven children, last year I graduated from the course and began to build a blanket by order. i am a mother of seven children , last year i graduated from courses and began to sew kurak korpe .
The Head of Government thanked all compatriots, business representatives, akimat, builders who participated in the restoration of the Arysian city.
Positive dynamics are also observed in domestic tourism over the past 5-6 years - at the level of 10-15%.
As you know, the head of state and the head of state instructed to quickly restore the city. as you know , elbasy and the head of state ordered to urgently rebuild the city .
The head of state, adhering to continuity in foreign policy, attaches great importance to the development of cooperation with the ranks, "said A. Mamin.
in this regard, the construction of wholesale distribution centers has begun, which will provide services to manufacturers for the storage, packaging, sale and transportation of products.
During the talks, issues of trade, economic and investment cooperation of Kazakhstan with Iran, participation of Kazakhstan's business in the development of energy, construction, agriculture, mining and oil and gas industry, transport industry of Afghanistan were considered.
strengthening the institutional capacity of economic sectors, timely formulation and effective implementation of reforms. it is very important to strengthen the institutional capacity of economic sectors , timely development and effective implementation of reforms .
these works will be carried out in the future.
their work is only increasing.
Abdykalikova, the results of the presidential elections in Kazakhstan, the priority of the foreign and domestic policy of the new head of state Tokayev and their first president - the head of state N. continuity with the direction of Nazarbayev, the implementation of the program "Modernization of public consciousness," the priorities of "Seven Features of the Great Steppe."
Kazakhstan employs more than 6.7 million employees.
accordingly, information on how the work is done, how it works.
Citizens with an income of up to one subsistence minimum for each family member (29.7 thousand tenge) are provided with rental housing without redemption (orphans, disabled 1 and 2 groups, pensioners, etc.). the waiting list with incomes up to one living wage per family member ( 29.7 thousand tenge ) is provided with rental housing without redemption ( orphans , disabled people of groups 1 and 2 , pensioners , etc . ) .
in the building of the Governor's Office of the region, media center, congress hall, Nur-Sultan Square, first president's park, Olympic reserve sports school, music school, palace of schoolchildren with a swimming pool, wedding palace, Kazakh drama theater, public service center, as well as city park with attractions, music fountain and amphitheater.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of close cooperation with the Asian Development Bank, which has made a great contribution to the quality of our institutions and the potential for economic growth, "said A. Mamin.
functioning of domestic markets, international cooperation, customs and technical regulation, digital agenda, sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
despite such good results, there is considerable potential for expanding bilateral partnership in the economic sphere, especially in the three priority sectors identified by the presidents of Kazakhstan and France: alternative energy, agriculture and digitalization.
In the first half of 2019, the volume of investments in the fuel and energy complex amounted to 2561 billion tenge and increased by 18.6% compared to the same period last year.
given these changes, we consider it necessary to continue the construction project, "said A. Kulginov.
mechanical engineering, subsoil use, oil refining, energy saving, development of transport and logistics infrastructure, pharmaceuticals and other industries.
The prime minister of RK Askar mother's became the first president of Kazakhstan the Assignment on increase in efficiency of means of feedback from the population sounded on political council of Nr Otan party and also the message of the head of state the tokayeva to the people of Kazakhstan Within tasks of formation of the state "the state paying attention to the voice of the people" In republican public reception party "Nr Otan" kasyma-is generous personal reception of citizens is carried out.
and young people should become the main factor in the competitiveness of our country in the modern world. "
Over the 10 months of this year, 11.5 million tons of oil were produced, which shows an increase of 7.4% compared to the same period in 2018 and exceeds the plan by 6.4%.
schools and hospitals should have high-quality high-speed Internet - this is necessary for the use of electronic textbooks and educational programs, telemedicine and information systems, "the Prime Minister emphasized.
According to statistics, 5.5 million Kazakhstanis are constantly engaged in physical education and sports.
micro and small businesses are exempt from income tax and verification for three years. micro and small businesses will be exempt from income tax and checks for three years .
a new Eurasian technological platform for maintenance and repair of industrial equipment was approved.
All issues raised in the public reception party "Nұr Otan" will be taken under the personal control of the minister.
According to Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Kairbek Rostenbayev, monitoring and control over the construction of houses is carried out daily.
Almaty is the largest business, financial, innovation and investment, as well as the educational and cultural center of the country.
Over the past 3 months, a lot of work has been done to implement the message of the President of Kazakhstan - 52 out of 81 points of the national action plan have been taken, "said A. Mamin.
a. According to Smailov, in order to implement the instructions of the head of state to improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis and resolve social issues, as well as the implementation of the presidential decree of June 26 "On measures to reduce the debt burden of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the government has developed a bill to clarify the republican budget for 2019.
Also, as part of the first beam, terminals were restored at Peter and Paul, Taraz and Semipalatinsk airports.
According to him, the bank's new approaches to state support demonstrate its effectiveness.
Residents of different regions of the country turned to the reception room with problems related to the provision of electricity, water supply, infrastructure development and other issues.
Under his leadership, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population organized systematic work to solve the tasks set by the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the head of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and the head of state, a generous and generous tokai for the modernization of the social sphere.
and measures to develop private entrepreneurship by providing long-term loans and grants, improving the efficiency of providing social assistance, doubling the volume of construction of rental housing for low-income families (20 thousand apartments per year), tripling the construction of a rental house for working youth (from 1 thousand apartments per year to 3 thousand apartments).
growth was 12.7%.
Akims need to keep the issue of preventing price increases under special control and monitor daily and quickly take measures, "Askar Mamin said.
this is the future of the country!
work is under way to increase the number of international air services.
Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry of Kazakhstan a. Zhumagaliyev and Chairman of the Board of the State Corporation "Government for Citizens" a. Plotasheva reported.
As part of the large-scale event, exhibitions were held with great success in museums in Belarus, Russia, Azerbaijan, China, Poland and South Korea, Uzbekistan.
The Prime Minister reported to the Minister of Labor and Social Protection on measures to regulate labor relations.
in the battle of leather glove masters, he was awarded the title of world middleweight champion according to ibf and ibo versions.
because international conferences are taking place here.
our common task is to increase the level of investment cooperation, "said A. Mamin.
The income plan is exceeded in all regions, except for the Mangistau region and the city of Nur-Sultan. " smailov.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Kassymbek and Mr. Abdykalikova, Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan e. Dossaev made reports on the areas he oversees.
As a result, the state helps only those in need, "the Minister of Labor added.
According to the state program "Nrla zhol" for 2019 555 billion tenges are provided, expenses for August 1 of the current year are mastered for 272.5 billion tenges.
On the progress of preparation for the unified national testing chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan a.
in addition, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan is the Minister of Finance. smailov met with the UN permanent coordinator in Kazakhstan norimas shimomura and heads of steam agencies and programs registered in the country.
organize an expedition commissioned by the tourism industry committee of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan "kazakh tourism."
these are bills "on the control of special goods" and "on the plant world."
The Prime Minister thanked the former Governor Yerlan Koshanov for the work done and wished him good luck in the new activity.
The Prime Minister was informed about the implementation of investment projects in the field of agriculture in the clouds and Burabai districts of Akmola region.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev and the president regarding generously Tokayev, it is necessary to qualitatively strengthen work to attract foreign direct investment in the country in order to ensure faster economic development, "said A. Mamin.
A lot of work has been done in this direction, it is under the special control of the head of state.
One of the main instructions of the president is the development of mass entrepreneurship.
growth accelerated to 13.5%.
Measures will be taken to improve targeted social assistance, introduce a guaranteed social package for children from low-income families, he said.
During the talks, topical issues and prospects of trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and France were discussed.
Kazakhstan has risen in 3 of 10 main directions and retained the fourth place in the world according to the indicator "ensuring compliance with conditions."
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the first bus fleet "Shymkent bus," where he reported on the organization of urban passenger transportation and the updating of the rolling stock of local public transport.
The Prime Minister noted that the existing portfolio of projects at the stages of implementation and development is designed to make Kazakhstan the largest exporter of polyethylene and polypropylene in the world.
On December 2 this year, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan received a delegation headed by the President of the International Association of Athletics Federations Lord Sebastian Newbold.
Of course, not everyone can be appointed to positions. of course , it is impossible to appoint everyone to the posts .
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Asar Mom is the chairman of the board of the association, the owner of the company "autumn" f. under the leadership of develioglu, he met with representatives of the Association of Turkish and Turkish Businessmen.
Within the framework of improving the position of the Republic of Kazakhstan in this rating, the Ministry of Trade and Integration, together with the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, is carrying out large-scale work to create a multi-format trade and distribution infrastructure aimed at ensuring the development of trade within the country and the possibility of entering foreign markets.
gardens (translated from Persian - "giant men") - fabulous ancestors of Kazakhs.
- the issue of accessibility and quality of care is very important for all of us. "
a number of regions show good performance in manufacturing, mining, agriculture, construction, housing commissioning and investment. a number of regions show good dynamics in manufacturing and mining industries , agriculture , construction , housing commissioning and investment .
a feature of the program is the development of "growth centers," the priority financing of which.
first of all, we go where major repairs are required. first of all , we are stepping back to where complex repairs are required , where the most damage is .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan inspected administrative, social, cultural and historical facilities, a local stadium, a palace of schoolchildren, akimat, a service center, a media center, a congress hall building, Nur-Sultan Square, a sports school of the Olympic reserve, a music school, a palace of schoolchildren with a swimming pool, a city park with attractions, a wedding palace, a Kazakh drama theater building, a fountain and an amphitheater.
Issues of development of "e-government" and improvement of digital literacy of the population were considered at the next government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
R. According to Dalenov, foreign trade turnover in January-September of this year grew by 1.5% and reached $70.4 billion.
Until the end of the year, a month and a half is left, "said A. Mamin.
At the next meeting of the government, chaired by the Prime Minister a. Mom considered the action plan for the implementation of the election program of President Tokaev and the proposals received from citizens during the national rally "together."
According to the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the dynamics of investments outstrips the growth rate, the growth of which amounted to 11.3%.
The head of state, greedy and generous Tokayev, continues the course towards further strengthening of strategic partnership with Uzbekistan, "said A. Mamin.
In accordance with article 44, subparagraph 5, of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, article 17-1 of the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan," in order to further improve the system of public service and combat corruption, I decide:
Due to the large volume of investments necessary for the introduction of 5g technology, at the first stage it is planned to organize the introduction of this technology in cities of national importance (nur-sultan, alum, shymkent).
many new facilities are being built, jobs are being created for young people.
The city is divided into 17 sectors, in which 213 construction companies and 213 units of special equipment work.
at the same time, grain harvesting was completed in the Turkestan region, in the Zhambyl region - at the final stage (94.6%).
current base rate level (+/-1t.p. in the corridor 9.00%) and monetary conditions this year ensure that inflation remains within the target corridor 4-6%.
According to Taiman Kalmakhanov, head of the Department of Construction and Architecture of the Karaganda Region, windows are being replaced in 9 out of 11 multi-storey buildings.
The Prime Minister noted the significant potential for increasing mutual supply of agro-industrial products, joint implementation of investment projects and entering the markets of third countries.
Repaired 4,943,4 km of heating networks (99.1%), 14,917,1 km (98.7%) of water supply networks.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council in Sholpan-ata.
both the kegoc system operator and network organizations are involved here, "said A. Ospanova.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, more than 5.9 thousand builders are involved in the restoration of the city.
The Prime Minister also visited the danmard training center, which will teach sewing.
Prime Minister Askar Mama paid a working visit to the region as part of the implementation of the "economy of simple things" programs initiated by the first President of Kazakhstan - Head Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as the instructions of the Head of State to generously Tokayev on the socio-economic development of Shymkent and Turkestan region.
our goal is to create conditions for youth development.
the largest increase in prices from the point of view of the regions is observed in Shymkent, Kyzylorda, Turkestan, Almaty, Kokshetau, Petropavlovsk, Aktobe and weights.
A landfill with a capacity of 1 million tons is 5 hectares of land or about 10 football fields, "said M. Myrzagaliev.
The meeting was attended by the Mayor of the city of Erlan Aitakhanov, the Minister of Health of the Yelzhan Birtanov, the Minister of Education and Science Askhat Aimagambetov, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Nurymbet Exchange, the Vice Minister of Culture and Sports, Bisakayev, the Vice Minister of Information and Public Development.
The exhibition will be held from October 1 to 31, 2019 as part of the international project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
81.7 billion tenge is provided for engineering communications at construction sites for timely delivery of housing. sklar.
Within the framework of the project "Village - cradle" 262.9 million tenge was allocated for the reconstruction of the palace.
At the meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, a draft national action plan for the implementation of the message of the head of state of September 2 of this year "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" was presented.
The head of state and the head of state pay special attention to this.
the second reason is the growth of export volumes.
Issues of development of "e-government" and improvement of digital literacy of the population were considered at the next government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
everyone's working, thank you.
in Turkestan, the Prime Minister inspected the construction of the regional center.
The main reforms implemented by Kazakhstan:
this year we identified 10 products to keep inflation in a given corridor. we have identified 10 products to keep inflation in 2018 in a given corridor .
The head of government noted that many investment projects are at an active stage of implementation.
first we refused to subsidize cereals, then oilseeds and vegetable crops. at first we refused to subsidize cereals , then oilseeds and vegetable and melons .
According to the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the project has preserved goals and objectives, improved support tools.
all this will allow the budget to receive additional income. " smailov.
The head of state also informed about the activities of the ahko court, the Academy of English Law, the international arbitration center and the ahko situation center.
Issues of preparation of regions for the upcoming autumn-winter period were discussed at a conference call of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin.
Extra-budgetary funds for projects, documentation and economic development plans for each rural locality and satellite are also needed.
targeted social assistance should be assigned to people who find themselves in a difficult life situation and who are not able to get out on their own, "the minister said.
Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan (anti-corruption service).
implementation of this document will ensure compact construction and optimization of the city territory, efficient use of infrastructure, as well as create favorable and convenient conditions for the population.
Within the framework of the state program, it is planned to reconstruct 7 thousand kilometers of roads of republican importance and repair 11 thousand kilometers.
Since the beginning of the year Kazakhstan and foreign airlines have opened 7 international flights.
At the same time, the head of government noted the importance of ensuring the quality of the transport infrastructure being created.
During the meeting, held after the signing ceremony, the Deputy Prime Minister informed the interlocutor about the results of the presidential elections in Kazakhstan, the priorities in the foreign and domestic policy of the new head of state of the Kassym-generous Tokayev and the fact that they are the head of state. continuity with Nazarbayev's direction, the program of modernization of public consciousness "modernization of public consciousness" in the country, the priority directions of article "Seven Sides of the Great Steppe" and an action within a Year of youth.
in the works of Greek authors they were artistically described as Asian Scythians (the word saka comes from the word "deer" of the Scythians), in other Old Russian sources - as "sharp horse tours."
Also, 1617 builders are involved in the repair of 62 social facilities.
Today, within the framework of the government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan in January-May of this year, the results of the socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the implementation of the republican budget were considered.
As the Head of State noted, the assistance mechanism should be "transparent and fair and encourage people to work, not indifferent," A. Mamin said.
Prime Minister Askar Mama held a conference call on attracting investments in the fuel and energy complex, as well as in the western region of the country and removing barriers to the implementation of investment projects.
The Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reported on preparations for the beginning of the new academic year. Aimagambetov.
In this regard, the Ministry of Energy noted the stable situation in the aircraft fuel market and the absence of a shortage, "said the Minister of Energy.
adjusted revenues and budget expenditures will cover the need for additional financing to solve social problems, create additional sources of economic growth, "said A. Mamin.
in general, for 9 months, the short-term economic indicator (industry, agriculture, construction, trade, transport and communications) shows the risks of not meeting the target growth of gross regional product in 2 regions.
after approval and editing of inaccuracies, this model will be applied throughout the republic.
The event was attended by Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Kula Shamshidinova, President of Nazarbayev University shigeo katsu, representatives of state bodies, international organizations, foreign universities, as well as heads, teachers and students of universities of Kazakhstan.
President of Kazakhstan K. Tokayev, continuing the foreign policy orientation of the head of state, pays special attention to the development and deepening of bilateral relations with Azerbaijan, "said A. Mamin.
a state commission for the preparation and holding of the anniversary was created.
First Vice Minister of Finance of Sholpankulov reported on the results of the execution of the state budget for 7 months of this year.
Therefore, the ministry is taking a number of measures to solve this problem, "said the head of the industry.
Within the framework of the action plan, the issue of restricting the use of transfers from the national fund and the dependence of the budget on the commodity sector will be worked out, work on the development of the stock market and irony of national companies will continue.
The sides discussed the pace of development of trade, economic and investment partnership between the two countries, noting a significant increase in indicators in these areas over the past two years.
The Prime Minister informed the head of state about the socio-economic situation in the country, as well as measures taken to prevent an increase in prices for socially significant goods.
basic industrialization, ank, transport, tourism and trade will become the main drivers of investment growth.
During the working trip to West Kazakhstan region, the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev held a meeting with the pedagogical community, at which issues of education development were discussed.
In 2020, it is planned to build distribution centers in 3 regions - Almaty, Aktobe and Semey with a total area of ​ ​ 96 thousand square meters.
Prime Minister a. Mamin noted that in accordance with the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan regarding the generous tokayev, damage to residential buildings, social and infrastructure facilities, life support facilities of the city will be assessed.
the first stage of the plant is planned to be introduced before December 1 of this year, the second - in 2020, the third - in 2021.
measures will also be taken to develop and support entrepreneurship, in particular, to stimulate the development of entrepreneurial initiative and improve the business climate.
The head of state reported on the progress of restoration work in the city of arys and the construction of new infrastructure facilities in Turkestan.
According to the results of 9 months of this year, the growth rate amounted to 4.3%, at the beginning of the year - 2.9%.
The Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, together with the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, needs to complete the restoration of all commercial facilities in the city.
you must work to solve the problems of our citizens, "the head of state said.
During the meeting with ambassadors and representatives of the diplomatic mission, the main aspects of bilateral cooperation were discussed, as well as the prospects for further strengthening diplomatic relations between the two countries.
developed infrastructure and convenient transport logistics.
Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of mutually beneficial partnership with Armenia, including the expansion of cooperation in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, therefore, on behalf of the Prime Minister, we have come to discuss opportunities for cooperation in the field of education, health care and information technology, "B. Saparbayev said.
for five years, 17 thousand specialists with a diploma in the village "were given a preferential budget loan for the purchase of housing.
The Head of Government instructed to strengthen the work on the modernization of the infrastructure of the pig-boron resort zone and the improvement of the environmental situation, the development of high-quality and affordable services.
one-time hot meals in the form of a social guarantee (350 tenge per day), compensation in the amount of 4 months (10,100 tenge) for travel 2 times a year and a scholarship in the amount of 16,759 tenge.
The head of government examined the life support and social infrastructure of the city of aksu - the city's heating boiler room and the children's eco-techno center under construction.
food production during this period increased by 2.1%, drinks - by 13.9%.
according to the results of inspections, violations were eliminated by supplying goods, performing work, providing services, accounting and repayment to the budget in the amount of 179 billion tenge.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of the state program "Nұrly zhol," initiated by the first President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in order to develop sustainable transport infrastructure of the country.
The head of government instructed to improve the existing investment infrastructure, unify the advantages for investors in special economic and industrial zones of the Republic of Kazakhstan, intensify the development of public-private partnership, increase the share of export-oriented projects with high added value.
The project is being implemented by the Singapore westgasoil company, the investment volume is $1.8 billion.
The government's task is to ensure decent education and self-development of Kazakh youth in accordance with international standards, "Saparbayev said.
to this end, the program plans to annually introduce at least 12-13 million square meters. meters per year.
output is more than 4.5 thousand tons per year.
Your level of education should meet the needs of our time and be competitive, "said Askar Mamin, congratulating all students on Knowledge Day.
the new akim has serious tasks for the socio-economic development of the region. the new akim has set serious tasks for the socio-economic development of the region .
In general, the oil production plan will be implemented this year, "said K. bozumbayev.
the settlement and financial center concludes a 15-year contract with this investor, which acquires all this energy.
the main drivers of investment growth will be basic industrialization, ank, transport, tourism and trade.
In addition, the head of government of Kazakhstan held talks with the first vice-president of the Islamic Republic Asar Mom Iran, at which topical issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation were discussed.
As the head of Kazakhstan noted, many projects relate to education, health, culture and sports, energy and housing and communal services.
In order to increase the efficiency of budget funds, when considering budget applications, first of all, the socio-economic impact is taken into account, "said A. smailov.
Following the results of negotiations with the participation of a. An agreement was signed between the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan company "kusto group" and "valmont industries" on principles of effective irrigation in the Republic of Kazakhstan and improvement of productivity in agriculture.
a stable labour market. the labor market remains stable .
On August 20 of this year, the national bank will reimburse up to 30% of the expenses of these organizations.
From the first days of independence, the first president, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, paid great attention to the support and development of youth. from the first days of independence , the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev pays great attention to the support and development of youth .
these are various campsites, places of accommodation, parks.
in turn, at. xurelsux noted Kazakhstan's authority in Asia and in the international arena as a whole.
The event was attended by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Belarus Alexander Turchin, as well as more than 200 representatives of official and business circles of the two countries.
in the works of Greek authors they were artistically described as Asian Scythians (the word saka comes from the word "deer" of the Scythians), in other Old Russian sources - as "sharp horse tours."
the heads of all ministries and departments, akimats themselves are responsible for the effective and timely implementation of the reforms, "said Kassym-zhomart tokayev.
On July 15 of this year, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state set the task of attracting strategic investors to the agro-industrial complex.
worked as akim of South Kazakhstan region, was the executive secretary of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies and the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, I ask you to consider extending the term of the parliamentary session to consider changes to the budget, "said Askar Mamin.
now there are not many young, educated people in the civil service, it's joyful, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
Existing and new funding mechanisms for activities are being developed.
In this regard, we must ensure the complete completion of the construction of the necessary facilities, "said A. Mamin.
today, the total number of permits has been reduced by 70%, that is, from 1200 to 316.
The Prime Minister stressed the need to take measures to financially ensure the implementation of the message of the head of state.
bsk (beak) irtykzka
council members considered issues of integration, trade, international cooperation, customs and technical regulation, industry, financial policy, public procurement, digitalization of the economies of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), industrial cooperation and a number of others.
the exhibition exhibits the "golden man," which is a symbol of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The average size of microcredit in the village is 3.8 million tenge, and in cities - 11.1 million tenge.
Issues of ensuring the stability of prices for socially important goods were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
207 companies, 7073 workers, 265 units of special equipment were involved in restoration work in the city of arys.
To date, water supply and sewerage networks have been carried out here, decoration is underway.
On behalf of the first President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, a lot of work is being done to improve the sphere of public services. on behalf of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev , large-scale work is underway to improve the scope of public services .
now in Kazakhstan the share of urban population is 58.2%.
Thus, in the new academic year, the amount of the scholarship will be 21,787.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, work was carried out to optimize the project.
Investor countries include the European Union, Russia, Turkey, Singapore and China.
Despite the fact that the main production has ceased, the pace of production in these projects is being carried out in excess of the plan, "said the First Vice Minister.
The sides discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation on the implementation of public-private partnership projects in Kazakhstan in the areas of housing and communal services, transport infrastructure, renewable energy sources, etc.
Among the objects of social purpose are the construction of sports and music schools, colleges of the tourist direction, stadiums, palaces of schoolchildren and sports.
Summing up, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of ensuring the strategic orientation of the prominent President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev and the full implementation of the election program of the elected head of state.
During the visit to Yerevan State University, Berdybek Saparbayev visited the center of the Kazakh language, culture and history.
51.5 million tons of coal were shipped to the domestic market of the country during this period.
in addition, budget expenditures will be aimed at supporting the real sector of the economy, including industrial and innovative development, housing and transport infrastructure, the agro-industrial complex, digitalization, and productive employment.
In May of this year, at a meeting of the Council of National Investors, Tokaev set the task of strengthening the role of SMEs and bringing its share in the country's economy to at least 35% by 2025.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan during his working trip to Almaty got acquainted with the construction of large infrastructure facilities, held consultations on the development of the city of Almaty and the Almaty agglomeration.
Issues of professional standards development were considered at the expanded meeting of the National Council on Qualifications chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
on the transition to the Concept of the State attracting attention
Today, the auto industry is becoming the main driver of the economy in Kazakhstan.
The head of state carefully generous Tokayev maintains the continuity of a peaceful multi-vector foreign policy and pays special attention to strengthening bilateral cooperation, "said A. Mamin.
next year, the salaries of medical workers will increase by 30% for doctors and by 20% for an average medical worker, and by 2025 - by 2 times compared to the current salary.
in Aktobe, within the framework of the initiative of the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev to support talented, hardworking children and youth, the Hope of the Country marathon was held.
The necessary measures are taken promptly, "said A. Mamin.
actively cooperates with the National Anti-Doping Center of Kazakhstan.
As part of the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the city of San Francisco, where he held meetings with the heads of leading world companies in the field of digital development, venture finance and energy.
The President pays great attention to this issue with respect to generous Tokayev.
For five years as minister, he worked intensively, did fruitful work to solve the current problems of this industry, "said Askar Mamin.
During a working trip to Mangistau region, askar visited a number of innovative industrial enterprises in the region, got acquainted with the development of the "green economy" in the region and the implementation of infrastructure projects, the construction of new cultural and tourist facilities.
b. sagintayev also served as first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, akim of Pavlodar region, minister of economic development and trade.
In turn, a. Mukhamediuly thanked the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Head of State of the Kassym-generous Tokayev for the trust and support provided to them in the implementation of state programs for the development of tourism, culture and sports.
we have significant opportunities to expand trade, economic and investment cooperation. we have enormous opportunities for expanding trade , economic and investment cooperation .
in this regard, adb will become for us one of the most competent institutional partners, whose experience in agriculture, infrastructure, tourism and regional development is recognized by the whole world and is reflected in the state programs of many countries, "said A. Mamin.
In the new edition of the World Bank's doing business rating, Kazakhstan took 25 place and fulfilled its plan to enter the top 25 2 years ago.
The Prime Minister noted that of the 864 assets of the Integrated Privatization Plan for 2016-2020, about 500 have now been privatized, which has increased the productivity and efficiency of infrastructure management, management in construction, mining, agriculture, manufacturing and other sectors.
The head of government noted that the first cosmodrome of the world is on the verge of a new stage of its development, which requires consolidation of forces, ideas and partnership support.
tax amnesty for individuals continues, "said A. Mamin.
The share of the industry in the structure of the country's gins is 5.5%.
In the state labor program, mechanisms for promoting employment will be improved, measures will be taken to encourage employers to gain new knowledge of their employees, and the development of social entrepreneurship.
Kazakhstan is aimed at expanding comprehensive mutually beneficial ties with Uzbekistan, "A. Mamin said. Nazarbayev and President of Uzbekistan sh. Mirziyev noted that in recent years, the two countries that have laid a solid foundation will contribute to a real strategic partnership.
in this direction, the national bank has adopted a set of measures.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan a. Dalenov, Minister of Health of Kazakhstan e. Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan a. Aimagambetov, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan b. atamkulov reported on the development of public-private partnership.
The Head of Government instructed to strengthen the work on timely restoration of affected business facilities, transport and engineering infrastructure, take a set of measures for medical support and prepare educational facilities for the start of the new school year.
we must support them.
this will allow us to demonstrate the transparency of Kazakhstan's economic and investment policies and confirms the status of our country as an active participant in the multilateral trading system, "said a. Mom.
"solving the problems of our citizens largely depends on coordinated work."
agreements are aimed at developing cooperation in trade, economic, investment, transit and transport, agricultural sectors, light industry, pharmaceuticals.
to implement these significant measures, it is necessary to amend the law "On the Republican Budget for 2019-2021."
Starting next year, as part of the initiative of the first President of Kazakhstan - the head of state, rehabilitation centers will begin to be built in the regions of the country.
The comprehensive plan will gradually increase the volume of housing construction from 500 thousand square meters. m this year to 1 million square meters. m per year and bring housing provision to the level of 1 square meters. m per 30 population, - said Askar Mamin.
By a decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a schedule for the postponement of days off in 2020 was approved in accordance with article 85, paragraph 3, of the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and in order to rational use of working hours.
At the meeting with the asset of Kyzylorda region, the head of government thanked Kusherbayev for the work done on the development of the region and wished him success in the activities of the head of the presidential administration - a new position.
To open new markets, the Ministry of Agriculture is conducting systematic work to coordinate the phytosanitary and veterinary requirements of importing countries, the minister said. lobster.
they have the right to receive rental housing as a priority, "said M. Zhaymbetov.
As we know, a solid foundation of bilateral relations was laid by the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Jordanian Hashemite King Abdullah II, between whom close, friendly relations have developed.
the health of the people for our country is the basis for sustainable development and improvement of well-being. for our country , public health is a key foundation for sustainable development and increased prosperity .
So, North Kazakhstan region increased positively at the level of 3.9% for construction, Mangistau region - at the level of 2.9% for investments.
In total, 171 builders work in the sector, their number is planned to be increased to 250, "said the first deputy akim of Pavlodar region ulan zhyldyz.
focused on medium- and long-term prospects of trade and economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the People's Republic of China (2020-2025), an agreement was reached on the implementation of a joint development plan.
229 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of 399 projects for the period 2015-2018 for the construction and reconstruction of 3367 thousand km of heating, water supply and sanitation networks, 24 boiler houses and 77 units of other facilities.
for such projects, the state will provide a package of all necessary support measures, "said A. Mamin.
Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov, on obtaining a permit for the construction and simplification of the procedure for the development of transport and logistics infrastructure of the river, the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported on improving international indicators in the field of education. Aimagambetov, Vice Minister of Trade and Integration of Kazakhstan.
on the project of implementation and adaptation of information system of paperless document flow in the field of air cargo transportation (e-freight)
Today, Kazakhstan construction companies have enough competitiveness, they must increase their competencies, enter international markets, export not only construction materials, but also services, "said A. Mamin.
At the end of this year, we expect inflation at the level of 5.7-5.8%.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. One of the main tasks set before us by Nazarbayev and the head of state is to ensure social stability in enterprises, to create safe working conditions for workers. one of the main tasks assigned to us by the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev , is to ensure social stability in enterprises and create safe working conditions for workers .
Republican plans will be developed to hold the 1150th anniversary of al-Farabi, the 175th anniversary of eternal sin and the 30th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, as well as events dedicated to the 750th anniversary of the golden horde, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The measures taken are aimed primarily at supporting specific needy citizens, including supporting young people, as well as at employing people, the Prime Minister said. the measures taken are primarily aimed at supporting the citizens in real need , including young people , as well as providing people with work , " the prime minister said .
the main credited projects were the food, service, agro-industrial and light industries.
During the meeting, issues of further development of bilateral cooperation in all spheres of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan were discussed.
Funds were allocated from the local budget for the development of design estimates. funds were allocated from the local budget for the development of design estimates .
coal mining companies produced 75.1 million tons of coal, which is 97.2% compared to the same period last year (77.2 million tons).
The Belarusian embassy is in "diplomatic packaging," where the embassies of the Republic of Korea, the residence of the Russian ambassador, are located, and a number of diplomatic missions are being built (China, baa, Saudi Arabia, Uzbekistan).
adoption of this resolution will support about 440 business projects worth 162 billion tenge. the adoption of this resolution will allow to support about 440 business projects in the amount of 162 billion tenge .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to Akmola region, where he got acquainted with the measures taken by the first President of Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev to achieve strategic goals and fulfill the instructions of the Head of State with a generous and generous tokai for the socio-economic development of the region.
sage, poet and sage of mankind. abay is a world-recognized wise teacher , poet and genius of the mankind .
large jobs among them: Zhetysu Mazhiko Agrocomplex LLP (construction of a production complex of oil and fat products and mixed fodders) and meat processing complex "meat processing and service."
today, according to world practice, the development of alternative energy sources is an important trend in attracting investment and improving the environment. as world practice shows , today the development of alternative energy sources is the most important trend in attracting investment and improving the environment .
providing the population with high-quality, safe and accessible flights is one of the most important tasks set for us by the head of state and the head of state, "said A. Mamin.
Today, Kazakhstan offers the most favorable conditions for doing business, since all the initiatives of businessmen are constantly supported by the state and the government.
The sides discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation in the fields of tourism, transport, health, education and others.
So, 4.7 trillion tenge is provided for diversification and modernization of the economy, provision of life infrastructure in the medium term.
Issues of development of "e-government" and improvement of digital literacy of the population were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Given the dynamics of the development of the ecosystem of the capital, we plan to carry out work on delivering experience with startups to the regions of Kazakhstan, "said A. Zhumagaliyev.
the first president of Kazakhstan among our countries is the head of state. a trusting and open political dialogue has been established, laid down by Nazarbayev and the top leadership of the series.
mobile centers are open in the cities of Nur-Sultan, Almaty and Shymkent, today there are 9 centers, in all regions of Kazakhstan it is planned to open another 30 centers.
In July of this year, monthly inflation amounted to 0.2%.
The Ministry of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry is working on the construction of fiber-optic communication networks in rural settlements (ayem) (1250 ayem up to 2020 inclusive), ensuring the laying of connection lines and wireless radio frequency (6019 ayem).
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening of the Kazakh-Mongolian business forum, and also visited the international financial center "Capital" (akhko).
all this positively affects the standard of living of our people, "concluded the first president of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted the important role of the Karaganda region in the development of the manufacturing, metallurgical, mining industries of Kazakhstan, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, mechanical engineering.
At the Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister A. Mamaev, amendments to the State Program for the Development of "Labor" Productive Employment and Mass Entrepreneurship for 2017-2021 were approved.
at a conference call of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, a draft national action plan for the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" was adopted.
the first president of Kazakhstan among our countries is the head of state. a trusting and open political dialogue has been established, laid down by Nazarbayev and the top leadership of the series.
Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Zhumagaliyev reported on the development of an innovative ecosystem in the field of information technology.
According to the Minister of Energy, since the beginning of the year 23 billion cubic meters of gas have been produced.
This was reported by the press service of the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
In addition, Kassymbek noted that by the end of this year, the government will adopt the State Infrastructure Development Program for 2020-2025.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was informed about the victims of housing, social, infrastructure and other facilities of the city.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan at the Government meeting chaired by Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan B. Atamkulov, Managing Director for Transport and Logistics of Samruk-Kazyna K. Alpysbayev, Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan K. Bozumbayev, President of Air Astana AK Foster.
The Prime Minister instructed the Ministry of Trade and Integration to intensify work to eliminate real and unrealistic barriers to trade between Kazakhstani entrepreneurs and eurozone countries.
Kazakhstan uses all available opportunities to develop the country's economy and diversify its structure, "said Julia Monaco, noting that citigroup supports Kazakhstan's initiatives to organize ipo on the sites of peace and ahko.
the government will create all opportunities to create the most favorable conditions for doing business in Kazakhstan. the government will do everything possible to create one of the most favorable conditions for doing business in kazakhstan .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held talks with the Federal President of Switzerland, the Minister of the Federal Finance Department, who arrived in Kazakhstan on an official visit.
This year, the "turnover scheme" is being implemented in four pilot zones.
Preparations for the introduction of memes are continuing in the country, "said the Minister of Health.
About 100 technical assistance projects in transport and agricultural complexes, education, healthcare, the development of small and medium-sized businesses and other areas were financed for $49 million.
As a result, over the 8 months of 2019 year, the volume of exports of agricultural products amounted to $2 040.6 million, which is 9% more than in the same period of 2018 year.
3 thousand kilometers of roads of national importance were built and reconstructed, 15 thousand kilometers of roads of regional and regional significance were repaired, 1.4 thousand kilometers of new railways were commissioned, 6 runways at the airports of Uralsk, Petropavlovsk, Almaty, Semipalatinsk, Kostanay, Balkhash were modernized.
among them are interest rate subsidies, loan guarantees, state grants, training of entrepreneurs, infrastructure creation.
therefore, the Ministry of National Economy, together with the nұr otan party and its faction, should organize hearings on the implementation of these programs.
currently, the cost of air tickets is formed mainly on the basis of a market and dynamic pricing mechanism (competition, demand, seasonal, holidays and weekends). now the cost of air tickets is mainly formed on the basis of a market and dynamic pricing mechanism ( competition , demand , seasonality , holidays and weekends ) .
during the construction of the plant, more than half of the new jobs were created.
today this city has become a regional center, the city is being activated.
Minister of National Economy R. on the impact of planned structural transformations in the country's economy on the development of entrepreneurship and the labor market.
Timely and high-quality execution of the action plan will ensure the well-being of citizens and solve social issues, "said Kassymbek.
this year alone, the number of private schools will increase from 121 to 181, an increase of 50%.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. The international financial center "Capital," created on the initiative of Nazarbayev, is one of the most important components of the national investment reform and is aimed at accelerating the country's economic growth.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. smailov answered various questions received from residents of different regions of the country.
- Tourism creates conditions for the socio-economic development of the country, attracting investment and creating jobs with a multiplier influence on the development of transport and telecommunications, construction, trade, agriculture.
the first level of this system will ensure the provision of GOBMP at the expense of the state budget to all citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Oralmans and permanently resident foreigners.
firstly, this is a significant deterioration of transport infrastructure from 40 to 100%, which, of course, affects the quality of roads, low logistics efficiency, leads to higher costs of transportation and prices for goods. first , there is a significant deterioration of the transport infrastructure from 40 % to 100 % , which , of course , affects the quality of roads , low logistics efficiency , and leads to more expensive transportation and prices for goods .
we have achieved good performance in energy, railway transport, act. we have achieved good performance in the energy sector , rail transport , and ict .
In the Aytoz district of East Kazakhstan region, the Prime Minister got acquainted with the work of one of the largest undeveloped copper deposits in the world - the enterprise "kaz minerals aktogay," which is engaged in the development of the Aktogai deposit.
this is one of the main tasks set by the head of state and the head of state.
In addition, the state industrialization program for 2020-2025 will be adopted by the end of the year.
in the total structure of expenses, social spending will amount to 44.7%.
we aim to create a model of economic growth based on a sustainable private sector. we strive to create a model of economic growth based on a sustainable private sector .
residents of the city of arys were resettled, "said A. Mamin.
"constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan."
Better consideration of the development and preparation of investment projects. we should better approach the issue of developing and preparing investment projects .
We draw attention to the social status of borrowers: 22% - unemployed (2,075 people), 74% - self-employed, 2.5% - disabled (236 people), 1.5% - low-income families.
This was stated by the head of state at a meeting on employment and labor, which took place on May 17 of this year, "said A. Tokaev.
We all have a common task to improve the availability and quality of medical services, "said Askar Mamin.
positive growth was 11.5% in construction, 7.5% in trade, 5.4% in the transport industry, 17.7% in the manufacturing sector, including in engineering, 14.3% in light industry, 17.2% in the production of non-ferrous metals, 5.1% in oil refining.
On behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, the government included scientists, restorers, historians, representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, akimat of Turkestan region.
It is planned to ship 130.4 thousand tons in September, and 19.6 thousand tons in October, "said K. Bozumbayev.
the state does not directly regulate and creates competitive conditions only for airlines.
During the meeting, issues of expanding the access of Kazakhstani goods to the PRC market were discussed, as well as important documents for the export of our products were signed.
growth is ensured by an increase in volumes in mechanical engineering by 95.9% (share in processing - 36.4%), metallurgy by 28.3% (share in processing - 21.6%), as well as volumes of finished metal products and light industry, except machinery and equipment.
the work of contractors should be high-quality, monitor it. the work of contractors must be of high quality , this must be controlled .
in the central-eastern, central-southern, central-northern and central-western corridors, the formation of a single transport system of the country is being completed.
Head of State N. According to Nazarbayev, strong business is one of the most important factors in ensuring economic stability. according to elbasy nursultan nazarbayev , strong business is one of the important factors for ensuring the sustainability of the economy .
The meeting of the coordinating council on attracting investments to the international financial center "Astana" chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Next year we plan to invite the leaders of Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan to the summit.
Over the past few months, members of the Nұr Otan faction have not expressed their position on any high-profile case, "said the first president of Kazakhstan.
2.2 million people were covered, of which 1.5 million were children.
fifth.
Also at the meeting, the heads of several ministries discussed the development of tourism, the provision of the resort area with engineering, transport and information and communication infrastructure, the development of promising villages and environs of the capital.
The Head of Government noted the need to create new effective jobs, diversify production in priority sectors of the economy, introduce advanced technologies and expand exports.
as a result of these achievements, the city becomes the leading center of business and mice tourism in the region (meetings, conferences, exhibitions, etc.), "said A. Mamin.
to do this, it is necessary to develop a program for the development of the Almaty agglomeration, "said A. Mamin, noting that a list of joint projects has been formed in various areas - energy, transport, housing, health care.
nevertheless, a number of budget program administrators have established a lack of budget funds.
During the opening, the Deputy Prime Minister thanked all participants of the event, and also noted that relations between Kazakhstan and Belarus are developing in all areas and have a positive dynamics.
Also, according to A. Ospanova, investors from other countries are actively working in the republic.
On September 12, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan opened the exhibition "The Great Steppe: History and Culture" at the Museum of Anadol Civilizations in the city of Ankara of the Republic of Turkey.
Following the consideration of the issue, the Prime Minister a. Mamin instructed the relevant state bodies to submit a draft law "On Amending the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Republican Budget for 2019-2021 "to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the prescribed manner.
foreign trade turnover in January-July of this year increased by 1.7% to $53.8 billion.
therefore, from next year we will launch a social services portal.
these persons (their number is about 10.9 million people) will be insured by the state.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov noted that from January to May of this year the positive dynamics of wool remained - the growth was 4%.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan checked the laboratory unit, which presents promising developments of the center in the field of medicine, agriculture, environmental biotechnology, food and processing industry, as well as the possibility of their further introduction into the country's economy.
lower prices directly affect the consumer, "said A. Askarovich.
in addition, of course, the effectiveness of these investments is the creation of a new industry and the training of our Kazakh specialists.
The Prime Minister visited the national center of biotechnology in the city of Askar, Mother Nur-Sultan, where he got acquainted with the development of Kazakh science, the development of scientific and technical programs and applied projects.
effective measures have been taken to develop the social sphere, "said A. Mamin.
as a result, this reduced the total debt by 5%.
this, of course, will contribute to the investment attractiveness of the country and will make it possible to find out the possibilities for creating new projects and industries, "said A. Mamin.
(the main parameters of the airport: artificial runway: 3 300x45m., Terminal area - 10.5 thousand m2, airport capacity - at least 450 passengers per hour).
The Head of Government thanked Berdibek Saparbayev for his contribution to improving the social well-being of Kazakhstanis.
Prime Minister Askar Mama became the first President of Kazakhstan - the head of state. On behalf of Nazarbayev, he visited the national scientific cancer center under construction in the city of Nur-Sultan.
Enterprises will also be commissioned in accordance with the specialization of the regions, "the minister said.
Thanks to the work done, Kazakhstan's position in the ranking of the World Bank doing business rose to 25 positions.
The head of government called on Turkish business to create export-oriented enterprises in the field of bank, light industry, construction materials.
tax authorities should strengthen control and work on the payment of taxes and compulsory social benefits, including mams.
The work of training the population portal egov is a direct task of the corporation. the work of educating the population on the egov portal is the immediate task of the corporation .
Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources M. Myrzagaliyev reported on the impact of renewable energy sources on the environment.
Kazakhstan is a promising place for doing business in terms of producing environmentally friendly products and entering the attractive markets of the EAEU and China, "Askar Mamin said.
During the talks, topical issues of development of bilateral trade, economic and investment cooperation were discussed.
summing up the meeting, the head of government gave a number of specific instructions.
work is being completed on updating the runway of airports in the cities of Kostanay and Balkhash to develop a network of airports and improve indicators of "air transport efficiency."
As of June 1, 83.2 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the fixed capital of the economy, growth - 4.4%.
21 thousand km of transmission lines and 1,152 substations were repaired for electric networks, which is 84% and 92% of the annual plan, respectively.
meeting of the presidential commission on the implementation of digitalization chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
tretii.
fourth.
Deputy akims of all regions, cities nur-sultan and Almaty arrived in the city of arys to organize construction work.
During the meetings, the Prime Minister noted that favorable conditions have been created in the country for the work of investors and called on companies to implement new joint projects.
Minister of Education and Science a. Aulagambetov reported on measures to improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis and solve social problems.
The Swiss side noted the favorable investment climate in Kazakhstan and the conditions for business development, this is evidenced by the position of Kazakhstan in the World Bank's doing business ranking.
This year, an international university of tourism and hospitality was registered and will begin its work in the near future.
young people come, see the dynamic development of the industry, the flow of foreigners, international events.
The Prime Minister visited the tesla company's office and plant, where, as part of a meeting with the company's management, issues of expanding the network of gas stations in Kazakhstan and opening service centers for electric vehicles were considered.
in Kazakhstan there are about 230 enterprises with the participation of French capital in various industries, including large transnational corporations, such as total, orano, alstrom and others.
increased frequency of flights on existing London, Moscow, Beijing, Istanbul routes. atamcules.
this will give an appropriate impetus for the development of production, and citizens of Kazakhstan will be able to receive a preferential financial instrument for the purchase of vehicles. this gives an appropriate incentive for the development of production , and citizens of kazakhstan will receive a preferential financial instrument for the purchase of cars .
To provide the economy with affordable credit resources, the national bank is improving the mechanism for long-term financing of banks for lending to the "economy of simple things."
64.7 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes this year, due to which it is planned to provide 17 thousand microcredit.
plant capacity - 100 thousand tons of products per year - more than 800 types of oil.
At the beginning of next year, we must conclude all contracts for next year in November-December so that we do not have any delays in drug provision, he said.
The head of state, a generous Tokayev, maintains the continuity of a multi-vector foreign policy and attaches special importance to strengthening bilateral cooperation, "said A. Mamin.
down payment - 10%.
Further, Askar mom examined the construction of the regional center, examined the objects that are being built for administrative, social, cultural and historical purposes.
tyson foods implements a joint project with the Kazakhstan company "kusto group."
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. Nazarbayev Nurly Zher, "which will give a powerful impetus to housing construction," said A. Mamin.
There are 68 social facilities (educational, health and sports institutions) on the square, 64 of which required major repairs and 4 - complete restoration.
The Prime Minister noted that Kazakh enterprises and departments are actively working with organizations of the space industry in Turkey, Turkey, Jordan, South Korea, Ukraine, Great Britain, Japan, China and many other countries.
the Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov noted that from January to September of this year, gin grew by 4.3%.
As you know, the leadership of the country set specific tasks for the development of mass sports and sports of the highest achievements. as you know , the country 's leadership has set specific tasks for the development of mass sports and sports of the highest achievements .
The sides discussed the further development of cooperation in trade, economic, transit, transport, agricultural, mining, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as cooperation within the framework of regional and international organizations.
In addition, during the meeting, issues of increasing the role of the nұr otan faction in the city maslikhat, strengthening anti-corruption work and activating the jas ustein youth wing were discussed.
During the meeting, headed by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Roman Sklyar and First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Turchin, information was exchanged on the economic situation in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus, as well as the current state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Belarusian trade and economic cooperation.
the largest investment growth was registered in agriculture, construction, trade and industry.
In particular, clear and transparent procedures for providing social support to those in need will be established, unified approaches to providing a guaranteed amount of social support will be developed, "the Prime Minister said.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. Nazarbayev and Tokayev consider Turkey as one of the important and strategic partners of Kazakhstan, "A. Mamin said in Ankara. at a meeting with Erdogan.
the parties discussed issues of cooperation in the areas of trade, economic, industrial, investment, energy, transport and logistics cooperation, production and processing of agricultural products, electronic commerce, the development of akhko, as well as the use and protection of transboundary rivers.
56 thousand loans are 56 thousand apartments, respectively.
Another important point of the integrated plan is the development of international cooperation.
The exhibition will also feature archaeological unique finds found in Saki mounds of taxay (West Kazakhstan region), talds-2 (Karaganda region) and beret (East Kazakhstan region).
During the meeting with the rutta, the prospects for further expansion of trade, economic and investment cooperation, cooperation in the energy, financial, transport and logistics, agricultural, equestrian, scientific spheres were discussed.
Currently, the database "Gifted Children of Kazakhstan" has been created, in which 26.5 thousand schoolchildren are winners and prize-winners of republican and international Olympiads and competitions of scientific projects.
a site for future construction has been identified.
The Head of Government noted that in recent years Kazakhstan has closely and mutually beneficial cooperated with Chevron.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the East Kazakhstan, Almaty and Karaganda regions on a working trip, where the Head of State checked the implementation of instructions of the Kassim-generous Tokai within the framework of working trips to the regions of the country.
as part of the implementation of the program, state programs, territorial development programs, comprehensive plans and strategies will be synchronized.
construction of industrial facilities, construction of roads, gas pipelines.
The head of government called on the Singapore side to actively increase its presence in the Capital International Financial Center, establish close ties between the business community of the two countries, and participate in investment projects to modernize the transport and housing infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. Dalenov, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan b. atamkulov, Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan e. Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan a. Aimagambetov, akim of Karaganda region J. Kassymbek, akim of Akmola region e. Margykpayev, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance a. smailov reported.
During the meeting, issues of trade and economic cooperation, the fuel and energy complex, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, industry, transport, agriculture, health care, environmental protection, education and science, social and labor relations, information technologies, culture, tourism, the development of interregional and cross-border cooperation, as well as the interaction of business circles of the two countries were discussed.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited Alma-Ata region on a working trip. a. The head of state got acquainted with the course of implementation of investment projects within the state programs initiated by Nazarbayev "Nrla zhol", "Nr zher", "IDES" and also with performance of orders of the Head of state Tokayev on development of economy of the region.
Earlier, the forum was held in large cities where the level of tourism development exceeds global indicators, namely Istanbul, Moscow, Barcelona, Marrakech, Luxor, Kuala Lumpur, Seoul.
Special attention should be paid to the development of the international financial center of the capital, the implementation of public-private partnership projects, the attraction of strategic investors, "said A. Mamin.
also visited the Koktas-Aktobe construction materials plant, as well as the Global Clothing garment factory, the project of the Economy of Simple Things program.
Since 2015, 282 billion tenge has been allocated for the implementation of the state program, under the new program "Business Roadmap - 2025" there are one and a half times more funds - 421 billion tenge.
After almost half a century, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan published the international project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
we are interested in further strengthening the strategic partnership, "the president said. Mirzians.
all regions of the country, as well as cities of republican significance, participate in large-scale construction work.
kz7196528f0007014540
A. Kulginov also spoke about similar projects implemented in the world and their cost.
Development is identified as a priority:
In accordance with the instructions of the President, the Ministry is working on the introduction of a 5g technology network in Kazakhstan. according to the president 's order , the ministry is working to introduce a 5g network in kazakhstan .
we must attract a large number of tourists here. we should attract more tourists here .
the drivers of growth were mainly industry, construction, transport, trade and agriculture. the main sources of growth were industry , construction , transport , trade , agriculture .
The head of government noted the significant potential for increasing cooperation in trade, economic, investment, financial and banking and other areas.
Under the leadership of Bauyrzhan Baybek, Almaty implemented large socio-economic, infrastructure reforms, tourism projects. under the leadership of bauyrzhan baybek , significant socio-economic , infrastructure reforms and tourism projects have been implemented in the city of almaty .
Since January 1 of this year, the minimum wage has increased one and a half times - to 42.5 thousand tenge, and by 203 thousand enterprises, wages by 1.2 million low-income workers have increased by 32%.
in particular, the implementation of the protocol of the meeting of the parties, on agreements and recommendations regarding the implementation of the Plan of Measures for the Development of Cooperation between the Governments of the two countries for 2019-2020, on trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Belarus and prospects for its expansion, in the field of industrial cooperation and the supply of equipment, in the field of agriculture and the food industry, on cooperation in the field of health, in the cultural and humanitarian sphere, science, cooperation in the field of technology and education, also agreed to hold the XVI meeting of the intergovernmental commission scheduled for Belarus in 2020.
rural settlements are distributed between these two companies: 828 - Kazakhtelecom JSC, 422 - Transtelecom JSC.
In January-May this year, gross domestic product growth amounted to 4% compared to the previous year, "the head of government said.
in Kazakhstan there are about 230 enterprises with the participation of French capital in various industries, including total, orano, alstom and other large transnational corporations.
the national budget in pilot mode to ensure the participation of the population in the formation of the budget, "said A. Mamin.
we are acting in a timely manner.
we must work on recommendations that will make the agenda in the future more flexible to new trends and better respond to emerging challenges and opportunities, "said the head of government.
As of November 11, the reserves of fuel and lubricant waste in the domestic market of the country amounted to: ai-92 - 185.2 thousand tons of gasoline, diesel fuel - 133.1 thousand tons.
According to the results of 5 months of this year, positive work on the socio-economic development of Akmola, Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan, Kostanay, Turkestan regions was noted.
The head of government instructed all central state bodies to complete the transition to a single platform of Internet resources by the end of this year.
At a government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamaev, a pilot project to increase incomes of the population of the Zhambyl region was considered.
increasing the popularity of sports, including athletics, is an important area of ​ ​ our policy. the popularization of sports , including athletics , is an important area of our policy .
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan visited the Khimpharm plant, where he checked the pace of development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry.
Within the framework of the project "Village - cradle of the country," 3,477 villages will be modernized, in which 90% of the rural population or 7 million people live.
we must ensure coordinated work to effectively solve the tasks set, "said A. Mamin.
we must educate the educated generation of youth. we must bring up an educated generation .
During the working trip to Turkestan region and the city of Shymkent, Prime Minister Askar Mama got acquainted with the work, transport infrastructure and construction of life support facilities in Turkestan.
to do this, it is necessary to use the potential of consulting companies and international financial institutions such as ekkdb, eadb, idb, adb and others in the framework of technical assistance provided to our country, "said A. Mamin.
Following the meeting, Berdybek Saparbayev presented books to his Armenian counterpart, in particular, a collection of Abai works, "selected treatises" of al-Farabi and the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state. Nazarbayev's book "The Era of Independence."
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the project "village - cradle of the country" was considered.
especially in recent years, attention has been paid to the livestock development program.
citizens should understand that all this belongs to Kazakhstan and our people, "the head of state concluded.
we must take an active position, especially in solving issues of a social nature, "said A. Mamin. we must take an active position in resolving issues , especially of a social nature , " said mamin , having instructed to implement the tasks set by the head of state thoughtfully , in close contact with the people .
The sides discussed strategic directions of bilateral activities in Kazakhstan, as well as issues of the energy sector, municipal infrastructure, transport, SMEs, green economy, renewable energy, petrochemistry.
taking into account the tasks of the business, work is underway to increase lending under the "economy of simple things" program.
this task can be solved.
New directions of the program have been identified:
In addition, the government has raised the status of a teacher and plans to increase the salary of teachers by 2 times, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
we systematically improve the mechanisms of social support for the population. we are constantly improving the mechanisms for providing social support to the population .
The Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace made a presentation on broadband Internet access and 5g development in the countryside under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Asar Zhumagaliyev and Chairman of the Board of Kazakhtelecom.
Issues of innovation ecosystem development, venture capital and startup projects in Kazakhstan were considered during the conversation. a specialist with the management of the company "plug and play," whose office is planned to open on the site "astana hub."
Prime Minister Askar Mama paid a working visit to the region as part of establishing control over the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development initiated by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as the execution of the instructions of the Head of State to develop the industrial potential of the Kostanay region.
at the enlarged meeting, the head of the Kazakh government emphasized the need to develop trade and economic cooperation in the format of a multilateral dialogue between Shu, Eo, Asean and Eu.
own revenues of local budgets exceeded by 74 billion tenge and amounted to 2,027 billion tenge. own revenues of local budgets exceeded 74 billion tenge and amounted to 2,027 billion tenge .
Today, such opportunities have already been taken advantage of Chinese, Russian and Uzbek financial technologies, "the Prime Minister said.
akimats should take control of this issue, "A. Aimagambetov said.
On May 31, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to Mangistau region, where he got acquainted with the implementation of the tasks set by the first President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the fulfillment of the instructions of the Head of State on the socio-economic development of the region during a working trip in April this year.
Prime Minister Askar Mama held talks with President Recep Erdogan and Vice President of the Fuat as part of a working trip to the Turkish Republic (tr.), took part in the XI meeting of the Kazakh-Turkish intergovernmental economic commission, the opening of a bilateral business forum and a meeting with the captains of Turkish business.
Issues of development of public-private partnership (PPP) were considered at a conference call of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin.
Kazakhstan is the homeland of apples, rubella, silk road, a place where horses are taught for the first time. kazakhstan is the birthplace of apples , tulips , this is the silk road , this is the place where the horse was domesticated .
Based on the measures taken this year, Kazakhstan took 25th place in the World Bank's doing business ranking.
educated, talented and healthy youth - the future of our nation. "
the dynamics are good here, we will increase it, "the Prime Minister replied.
for its development, best practices of Great Britain, Estonia, Singapore and other technologically developed countries are being actively introduced.
The head of government noted the great potential for increasing cooperation in trade, economic, investment, cultural, humanitarian and other areas.
The Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan reported on measures to provide housing for low-income segments of the population, as well as working youth.
labor productivity - more than 4.4 million tenge.
The President approved the commission's work plan regarding generously Tokai for 2019-2020.
France is one of the main partners of Kazakhstan in Europe. france is one of the key partners of kazakhstan in europe .
The head of government noted the positive dynamics and instructed to intensify work on business development.
the total area of ​ ​ spring sowing amounted to 19 million hectares, including grain crops - 14.5 million hectares, oilseeds - 2.7 million hectares, vegetable melons and potatoes - 458.3 thousand hectares, fodder crops - 1.2 million hectares, technical crops - 144 thousand hectares.
The head of government instructed interested state bodies together with the Ministry of National Economy to develop roadmaps for business development in the supervised sectors.
During the talks, issues of further development of cooperation in trade, economic, investment, transport and logistics, agriculture and other areas were discussed.
to those who can work - they create all the conditions for training, obtaining specialties, opening personal professions, employment, "the Prime Minister said.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development Roman Sklyar noted that 605.7 billion tenge of investments were attracted to housing construction in 6 months of this year, which is 15.5% higher than in 2018.
"A. Aripov noted that" this highway is important, first of all, for further intensification of trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. "
also in the city of Nur-Sultan and Mangistau region there is a decrease in 3 indicators, in North Kazakhstan - in 2 indicators, in Almaty, Kostanay, West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and Karaganda regions - in 1 indicator.
all questions are answered.
At a selector meeting of the Government under the chairmanship of the prime minister of RK Askar Mamin the course of implementation of the state program of housing construction of "Nrla zher" and the project for 2020-2025 is considered.
The contribution of European Union experts was important for the development and implementation of some key strategies and documents in the areas of governance, privatization, digitalization, public-private partnership, sustainable development, which play a large role in the growth of the Kazakh economy and improving the well-being of the country's population, "said A. Mamin.
In the house of investors a. The specialist was presented with the work on attracting investments in Pavlodar region.
About 2 thousand builders work at social facilities that commissioned 50 buildings of educational institutions, 4 health facilities and two sports schools.
To further cover rural areas with broadband Internet in 2018-2021, it is planned to build fiber-optic and lte (4g) networks.
Over the 7 months of this year, trade between the two countries grew by 24.5% and amounted to $297 million.
The Prime Minister informed about Kazakhstan's plans to create a transport infrastructure capable of providing telecommunication traffic in Russian, Chinese and Central Asian directions.
strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation of business structures between the two countries and implementation of new joint investment projects in Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister noted that the main work of the Governor's Office of the city of nur-sultan is the prompt solution of issues of gas supply, street lighting, storm sewage, construction of social facilities, improvement, development of transport networks.
tretii.
From January to June of this year, trade between the two countries amounted to $1.1 billion, which is 31.8% higher than the same period last year.
I am sure that after the completion of this work, our countries will be able to fully realize the transit potential, "said Alikhan Smailov.
about 120 speakers from Australia, New Zealand, Africa, Europe and the CIS countries spoke at the congress and more than a thousand delegates took part.
The population of 4 large agglomerations (cities nur-sultan, Almaty, aktobe and shymkents and their surrounding settlements) increased by 1 million people.
The chairman of the fung group at a meeting with Viktor Fung discussed changes in the global economic and trade market, topical issues of the development of the financial sector.
in this regard, the national tourist product will develop.
In addition, by October 1 of this year, the integration of all information systems of state bodies with the social health insurance fund will be completed.
modernization of the existing infrastructure will give a new impetus to the development of the rural economy.
- one of the largest investors in the economy of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of the Confederation of Business and Employers of the Netherlands spoke about the prospects for the development of trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two countries.
the first president is the head of state. Nazarbayev and Tokayev pay special attention to the development of the city of Turkestan. the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev pay special attention to the development of the city of turkistan .
As of September 19 of this year, coal reserves in energy depots amount to 4 million tons of coal, which is 15% more than last year and 101.9 thousand tons of fuel oil, which is 23% more than last year.
using advanced valmont industries technologies will have a multiplier effect in creating a feed base for crop production and animal husbandry, "said A. Mamin.
During the meeting, the parties discussed important issues of bilateral cooperation, devoted to short-term and long-term prospects in relevant areas of cooperation between the two countries.
reported on the socio-economic impact of the comprehensive plan on the economy of the city and the country as a whole.
among them are members of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, akim of the city nur-sultan, akim of akmola region, representatives of state and public organizations, diplomatic corps, local executive bodies, students, volunteers.
promising products - meat, meat and dairy products, soybeans, corn.
these bills were agreed with the head of state and approved by the republican budget commission in accordance with the established procedure.
2 . payment of lump sum compensation in the amount of KZT44,000 to each resident of the city (for 781,100) as additional measures of social support;
on the first issue of the agenda of the meeting, the Minister of National Economy of the Dalen River, the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Sklyar River, the Chairman of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan e. Doschaev, First Vice Minister of Finance b. sholpankulov.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. A meeting of the Council for Interaction with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu) was chaired by Smailov.
This was reported by the press service of the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mama and Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Abdullah aripov took part in the opening ceremony of a highway of international importance in the direction of "Beineu-Akzhigit - the border of Uzbekistan."
the bulk of ferrosilicon will be supplied to Russia, Turkey, south Korea, Kazakhstan and the countries of the European Union.
recently, for example, on our initiative, the first leaders of some schools and clinics switched to the first floors.
the largest receivables remain in Almaty - 2.6 billion tenge, Nur-Sultan - 1.7 billion tenge, Mangistau region - 1.5 billion tenge, Shymkent - 1.3 billion tenge.
The development of cooperation with eidu is one of the priorities of the country's foreign economic policy, the First Vice Minister of National Economy stressed. Irgali.
in June this year, the Ministry of Trade and Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan was created, aimed at the formation and implementation of the country's domestic and foreign trade policy, including the promotion of cooperation with the WTO.
Now the city of nur-sultan reimburses all expenses and annually brings trillions of income to the budget, "the head of state said.
In addition, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the construction sites of the new park and the city watermelon under construction.
Kazakhstan is the first state in central Asia to join the Asian Development Bank. kazakhstan was the first central asian country to join the asian development bank .
The Government has developed measures to address pressing social problems.
all this is done for the benefit of the country, "Nursultan Nazarbayev told representatives of regional gardens.
For the timely and qualitative implementation of the initiatives of the head of state and the instructions of the head of state to improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis, it is necessary to continue actively attracting investments, creating productive jobs, diversifying the economy, increasing productivity, promoting exports, transferring technologies and innovations, "the Prime Minister said.
Akims of cities and regions need to strengthen work on implementing the ongoing reforms and creating favorable conditions for doing business, attracting investments, developing infrastructure, the Prime Minister said.
solving pressing social problems is the most important priority of the government.
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the opening of the VIII Global Tourism Summit in the city.
The building, designed for 1,500 people, consists of two zones - the zone of intellectual and sports development.
I often go to the regions, meet with young people.
the government needs to study and support these approaches, "the head of state said.
Kazakhstan and France are strategic partners. kazakhstan and france are strategic partners .
our goal is to create the best conditions for business in Kazakhstan and get an international rating of the top 25 best countries of the doing business rating.
this will be an important price containment factor.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov took part in the meeting from Kazakhstan, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation - Minister of Finance Anton Siluanov from the Russian side.
this organization has a great future, "said A. Mamin.
expenditures of the national budget were spent by 98.9%.
of them from the republican budget - 2.7 billion tenge
in the construction industry there is an acceleration.
In this direction, work is underway to increase the investment attractiveness of ktn projects.
fortunately, there are a lot of talented children in our country. fortunately , there are many gifted children in our country .
priority areas of budget spending are support for the real sector of the economy, the preservation of jobs and the development of the social sphere.
large, low-income families - 28,126 people.
kindly,
a visa-free regime has been established between the countries, in December this year it is planned to open direct flights between the nur-sultan and income.
All regions of the country will take part in the restoration of the city.
The plan for the integration of information systems concerns all state bodies and is designed for 2019-2020. the plan for the integration of information systems affects all government agencies and is designed for 2019-2020 .
Governor's offices need to work more actively with investors on renewable energy projects and use them to improve the environmental situation in the regions, the Prime Minister said.
strong regions - powerful Kazakhstan
This was reported by the press service of the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
The sides discussed the prospects of cooperation and exchange of experience in the field of mechanized irrigation, telecommunications, renewable energy, infrastructure construction, as well as agricultural science and education.
The Prime Minister also held talks with Deputy Prime Minister Hamad bin Abdulaziz al-Kawari.
The head of the Kazakh government noted the fruitful work of the parties in the transport and logistics direction.
He noted that this year in all regions the share of local content in the procurement of goods and services of the "economy of simple things" will increase by 20%.
in the manufacturing industry, growth was 3.2%. in manufacturing , growth was 3.2 % .
we are ready to submit proposals to increase the confidence and transparency of the population and business regarding the current exchange rate policy within the deadlines set by the president, "the head of the national bank summed up.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan received takehiko nakao President of the Asian Development Bank (adb) on an official visit to Kazakhstan.
this should not happen, "Saparbayev said.
Kazakhstan continues to pursue a multi-vector foreign policy, strengthening strategic cooperation with the main partners - Russia, China, Kazakhstan, the European Union, Central Asia and the CIS countries.
In general, in the republic compared to 2018, the number of real estate objects increased by 20 objects in 2019: from 67 to 87, the total capacity of food objects increased 1.9 times: from 537 mw in 2018 to 1042 mw in 2019, "said the First Vice Minister.
"I express my condolences to my family and friends."
A new format for targeted social assistance is being developed.
specific work is organized on all requests, comments and proposals voiced by deputies. on all the questions , comments , suggestions raised by the deputies , concrete work will be organized .
There is also an innovative center "jastar time," where students of grades 5-11 study in equestrian areas, namely: 2d/3d graphics, programming, video building, etc.
The initiative of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev "hope of the country" is implemented by the foundation together with the government, akimats of the regions, the business community and non-governmental organizations.
Today in Tashkent, Prime Minister Askar Mama met with President of Uzbekistan Shavkat mirziyoyev.
in particular, the ascar specialist checked the implementation of investment projects in metallurgy, pharmaceuticals, the food industry, and the development of transport infrastructure.
Also, the first president of Kazakhstan met with the main shareholders and participants of the exchange of the financial center.
A draft resolution has been prepared by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which provides for the following changes:
The head of state noted that the country has reached a new stage of political and socio-economic reforms.
Today, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting with members of the government and akims of the regions, during which key directions of President Tokayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "constructive public dialogue is the basis of stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" were considered.
Income growth for the fact of 2018 is projected by 1 trillion 233 billion tenge or 121%.
a lot depends on you, "said B. Saparbayev.
the exhibition also featured unique archaeological finds found in Saki mounds of taxai (West Kazakhstan region), talds-2 (Karaganda region) and beret (East Kazakhstan region).
measures taken by Kazakhstan to develop competition and the business climate over the 10 months of this year contributed to the growth of the country's economy by 4.4%, as well as an increase in Kazakhstan's position in the ratings of ecocdb, IMF, adb, the World Bank and the World Economic Forum.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that the first President - President Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Head of State pay great attention to cooperation with the countries of the European Union, which are one of the most important trade and economic partners of Kazakhstan.
in agriculture and the construction industry, investment increased one and a half times.
according to forecasts of the National Bank, inflation will remain within the target corridor with a clarification of 4-6% set for 2019-2020.
Following the meeting, a document was signed on the strategic partnership between the "fourth center of the industrial revolution" and the international financial center "Capital" (ahko) in the development of the Internet of Things (iot), which was the first step towards the creation of an advanced center for the fourth industrial revolution in Kazakhstan in 2020.
During the meeting between Berdibek Saparbayev and Deputy Prime Minister of Armenia Tigran Avinyan, many issues of bilateral cooperation were discussed.
at the same time, state bodies are instructed to ensure the readiness of social and infrastructure facilities in a timely manner.
at the government meeting, an action plan for the execution of the instructions of the head of state was approved.
The state program for the development of the tourism industry is based on the top 10 objects of Kazakhstan, one of which is the Shchuchinsk-Borsky resort zone, "said Askar Mamin, adding that the tourism sector has high hopes.
According to the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development, the construction of 4,188 km of water supply networks (2,420 km) and sanitation (1,768 km) is planned at the expense of the republican and local budgets.
now it is planned to appoint 3 "digital" vice ministers to the ministries of industry and infrastructure development, energy and internal affairs, "said A. Zhumagaliyev.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan
B. According to Atamkulov, the new state program will increase mobility, labor productivity and quality of life.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting with experts of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) under the leadership of the head of the mission on Kazakhstan brand horton.
23 energy saving projects are being implemented in Pavlodar, Almaty, Kyzylorda, Kostanay, Turkestan and North Kazakhstan regions and Almaty city.
In general, according to A. Aimagambetov, all preparatory work has been completed.
first category infrastructure
62 social facilities, including hospitals, schools, kindergartens, sports facilities, will be ready until August 20.
The implementation of the national plan will ensure the solution of all tasks and the election platform set in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan, "said A. smailov. the implementation of the national plan will provide a solution to all the tasks set in the address to the people of kazakhstan and the election platform of the head of state , " smailov said .
The development of the livestock industry was discussed at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister.
Within the framework of the principle of continuity, the government's work will be aimed at effectively continuing the course of the head of state at the new stage of the country's development - the implementation of the strategy until 2050, the national plan "100 concrete steps," social initiatives of the head of state, as well as ensuring social harmony and strengthening mechanisms of national unity.
One of the effective tools for the development of entrepreneurship, employment and economic growth can be a joint program for the development of the "economy of simple things."
First President Nursultan Nazarbayev constantly paid great attention to cooperation with Singapore and was a personal friend of the Prime Minister and relations between the two countries are successfully developing with him. the first president nursultan nazarbayev has always paid great attention to cooperation with singapore and has personally been friends with prime minister lee kuan yew , thanks to which relations between the two countries are developing successfully .
this project will not only increase the availability of housing for the population of the country, but also give impetus to the development of the construction industry, "said the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, speaking to the workers of the plant.
Head of State N. On behalf of Nazarbayev and Head of State Tokayev, work will continue to improve the conditions for business development.
In general, last year the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development together with akimats of the regions did a lot of work on the development of local networks.
Summing up the results of the meeting, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that representatives of all regions of the country, national companies, large businesses actively participate in the restoration of the city.
for this, a set of systemic and structural measures is being taken, "said A. Mamin.
this is a good example for lagging regions.
2020-2021 Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan M. Beketaev, First Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan A. ergaliyev, First Deputy Chairman of the Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bechtenov.
According to the results of 9 months of this year, bilateral trade reached $2.3 billion, which is 68% more than in the same period of 2018.
a logistics infrastructure is created.
he also noted that the national tourist product is concentrated around sub-brands.
civil aviation development issues and measures to further reduce air ticket prices.
young people have great energy and are very talented. young people have a lot of energy and talents .
The volume of work performed increased by 11.8%.
The report of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov was heard in the budget and financial direction.
we support the participation of ECB in the modernization of the infrastructure of the healthcare system, "said A. Mamin.
The head of state instructed to combine all housing programs into a single housing policy. the head of state has instructed to consolidate all existing housing programs into a single housing policy .
Along with the Soyan, in 2018, 2 Kazakhstani universities (excavations named after al-Farabi, Gumilev estate) were recognized by the times higher education rating publication.
More than 4,200 companies with Turkish capital are registered in Kazakhstan, which provide services in the energy, transport, agro-industrial, engineering sectors, infrastructure construction and other sectors.
Despite this, from June 28 to July 4, experts checked 327 houses, including 5 high-rise buildings.
The first President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of ensuring high rates of economic growth and achieving strategic plans for the development of the country.
In 2018, the volume of bilateral trade of countries increased by 8.2%, trade amounted to $900 million.
Kassym-generous Tokayev noted the balance of the draft budget and compliance with the requirements of the country's socio-economic development.
After determining the winner of the competition, we will begin work.
In May of this year, the first Lviv national low-cost airline was launched.
to date, Kazakhstan's sovereign credit rating is included in the investment "valuation category, but the level of risk is characterized as" average. "
B. Sultanov has extensive experience in organizing the work of a new state body and the qualitative fulfillment of tasks, "said A. Mamin.
From 2015 to the first quarter of 2019, 97,147 entrepreneurs paid 811 billion tenge in taxes to the budget, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
The head of state carefully and generously maintains the continuity of foreign policy and pays special attention to strengthening bilateral cooperation, "said A. Mamin.
at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister a. sklyar reported on the implementation of the project "village - cradle of the country."
of which the quality of vocational education "improved compared to 2017 by 11 positions (from 102 to 92 places)," critical thinking in training "by 1 position (from 46 to 45 places).
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan noted that all regions, national companies, representatives of big business of the country are actively involved in the reconstruction of the city.
Within the framework of 45,500 projects of entrepreneurs, 24 agreements were signed in the amount of 2 million euros (94 companies).
To monitor this work, each state body, holding and akimat establish relevant performance indicators.
31 objects were sold in the amount of 33 billion tenge.
At the end of last year, American investments in Kazakhstan set a new record and amounted to $5.3 billion.
inflation is formed within the targeted corridor of 4-6%.
in the new workshop multi-storey boards are produced - all parts of household appliances.
employment and new jobs
For 9 months of this year Kazakhstan's gins grew by 4.3%.
work on seed harvesting continues.
Minister of National Economy on the development of agglomerations, single-industry towns, as well as villages with high development potential. Dalen reported.
the second.
Ahead of the center awaits large-scale work. the center will have serious work ahead .
3 . 4 thousand children from the city of arys are sent to health camps;
The meeting discussed topical issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation.
in addition, for many years Germany has been one of the leading foreign economic partners of Kazakhstan.
First Deputy Minister of Energy mahambet dosmukhambets and akims of several regions reported on preparations for the heating season.
As of October 1 of this year, 615 contracts worth 1.6 trillion tenge were concluded, including 551.5 billion tenge of investments, including 339.5 billion tenge for republican projects, 212 billion tenge for local projects.
The international expedition "Silk Road - the Path of Dialogue" was launched in Almaty.
In the future, reserves will be found by reducing all inefficient spending and increasing budget revenues to strengthen social support for the population, "said A. smailov.
The head of state in the message "constructive public dialogue - the basis of stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" set this goal, emphasizing the need for structural reforms.
The joint Kazakh-Chinese statement of the President of Kazakhstan in September this year, signed by the heads of our states during the first state visit to China, outlined a comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries, "said A. Mamin.
It is necessary to work on increasing investment cooperation, "said Askar Mamin, noting the huge potential in the areas of industrialization, the agro-industrial complex, transit and transport potential, and the financial sector.
French companies are widely involved in energy, agriculture, mechanical engineering and other sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan, "said A. Mamin.
Minister of National Economy of the Dalenov River reported on the expected socio-economic effect of the implementation of the comprehensive plan for the economy of the city and the country as a whole.
Issues of broadband Internet access and 5g development in rural areas were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Uzbekistan exports mainly cherries and red cherries, ground grapes, apricots, tomatoes, peaches, kurma, vegetables to Kazakhstan.
The Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin reviewed the progress of agricultural harvesting.
The meeting considered the implementation of the state program "digital Kazakhstan," initiated by the first President of Kazakhstan - Yelbasy Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Kassym-Zhomart Tokayev to accelerate the digitalization of the country's economy.
it is necessary to complete all work within the established time frame and create all conditions for residents, "said A. Mamin.
A meeting of the presidential commission on the implementation of digitalization was held under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
What news this time? what was new this time ?
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. Nazarbayev and Tokayev consider the development of the competitive environment and antitrust legislation as one of the priority areas of economic policy, "said A. Mamin.
The comprehensive plan provides for the implementation of 89 measures totaling more than 1 trillion tenge, of which 836 billion tenge (65%) - due to private investments, 68 billion tenge - through the mosque.
The top 10 products include cereals (wheat, barley), flour, vegetable oil and oilseeds, cotton fiber, fodder crops, confectionery.
until December 1 of this year, the government will approve the state program for the development of regions until 2025.
As a result, state support measures will be developed "at the level of district and rural districts."
here we pay attention to four main areas: ecotourism, ethnotourism, entertainment, events.
The head of government discussed with the head of the Chinese parliament further prospects for cooperation in the framework of the Kazakhstan program "Nұrly zhol" and the Chinese initiative "one belt - one way," including the prospects for developing the transit and transport potential of Kazakhstan.
The volume of investments in the fixed capital of Aktobe region in January-July 2019 amounted to 2513.9 billion tenge (118.3% compared to the same period of 2018), Mangistau region - 291.6 billion tenge (83.2% compared to the same period of 2018), West Kazakhstan region - 278.6 billion tenge, which is 38.3% more than in seven months last year.
During the meeting, the state commission discussed the implementation of a comprehensive plan for the integrated construction of the city, gas supply, the development of suburban and shared construction.
9.1 million tons of oil were produced, which is 9% lower than the same period in 2018, but 2.2% higher than the plan.
I want to urge the departed and now studying Bolashakov "to take an active part in the reserve, go through all the qualifying procedures and join the personnel reserve," said M. Daveshov.
Thus, the bill provides for the introduction of the concept of "investment resident" and the program "investment tax residency."
The meeting considered the implementation of the state program "digital Kazakhstan," initiated by the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - head Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the fulfillment of the instructions of the head of state of the Kassym-generous Tokayev to accelerate the digitalization of the country's economy.
a total of 9,433 microcredit loans (49.6%) have been issued since the beginning of the year, including 8,450 or 50.7% of the annual plan (16.7 thousand) in rural areas.
The head of state gave a number of instructions aimed at improving the well-being of the population and the economy as a whole, the Prime Minister said.
In 2018, they produced 8427 tons of uranium (38.8% of the total uranium production in Kazakhstan), for 9 months of this year - 6645.8 tons.
this is a 5g council, smart cities, "the development of mutually beneficial partnership to introduce new technological elements in our countries, such as large-scale data, blockchain, digital assets, as well as the construction and placement of data centers, the development of data transit, participation in the global digital services market," the Prime Minister said.
this project is intended for stable and long-term Kazakh-French industrial cooperation, "said A. Mamin.
I note that all the first leaders are personally responsible for fulfilling the president's instructions. i draw the attention of all the first leaders - you are personally responsible for fulfilling the instructions of the president .
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov at the international forum "Transit Potential of the Eurasian Continent" in Yerevan raised topical transit issues in the EAEU.
issues of construction of affordable housing and social facilities, employment, development of transport and road infrastructure, entrepreneurship, realization of tourism potential.
Within the framework of monitoring the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development, initiated by Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Yelbasy Nursultan Nazarbayev, as well as the instructions of the Head of State to generously Tokayev to develop the industrial potential of Pavlodar region, a working visit to the region was held.
At the regular meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the implementation of the State Program for Infrastructure Development "Nұrly Zhol" for 2015-2019 and the project for 2020-2025 were considered.
in industry, investment increased by 17.5%. Dalenes.
The capital should become an example for all regions to achieve indicators of socio-economic development, "said Askar Mamin.
The Head of Government noted that the issue of Kazakhstan's place in international ratings is under constant control of the project office of the government.
low readiness to repair heating networks in the city of Nur-Sultan - 73.6%, in the Mangistau region - 91.7%, in the Atyrau region - 96.8%, "said the peaceful atamkul.
Currently, for the development of science, we are amending regulatory acts, "Saparbayev said.
Today Almaty hosts an international educational forum qs worldwide.
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan inspected the construction site of the buildings of the Governor's Office of the region, the media center, the congress hall, the square "nur-sultan," the service center.
in the structure of the local economy, 26.5% is in industry, 58.4% in services, including 15.4% in trade.
The main indicator among the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development "pisa" is the international student assessment program.
In addition, the head of state noted the importance of continuing work to increase the efficiency of budget expenditures and further increase budget revenues.
More than 212 thousand employees receive an additional payment for the qualification category in the amount of 30 to 50% of the monthly salary, 7 thousand employees for the master's degree in the amount of 10 monthly calculation indicators (25,250 tenge), 18 thousand employees for mentoring 1 in the amount of the basic official salary (17,697 tenge), "said A. Aimagambetov."
we will continue to work on further improving the business environment, "said A. Mamin.
From 2019 to 2025, 2.6 million new jobs will be created.
a decrease in prices from October to November is observed for the following goods: sunflower oil 0.4%, potatoes 3.4%, carrots 4.5%, onions 5.8%, cabbage 7.7% and sugar 7.9%.
Issues of financial sector development were also discussed at the meeting of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan with the chief executive officer of the regional department for central and eastern Europe "deutsche bank ag."
improving the well-being of citizens is a priority goal of the government, "he said, instructing all state bodies to take responsibility for solving the tasks of the presidential election program action plan.
The meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister A. Mamin considered the development of the international financial center of the capital.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev and the President pay great attention to the development of the village and the agro-industrial complex. elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and president kassym-jomart tokayev pay great attention to the development of villages and the agro-industrial complex .
Construction work began in August this year.
it is necessary to continue this work together with all domestic airlines, "summed up A. Mamin.
Issues of development of renewable energy sources (energy) were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
leading regions: East Kazakhstan, Akmola, North Kazakhstan, Kostanay region and Almaty city.
At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the bill "On the status of a teacher" was approved, submitted by the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Aimagambetov.
During the working trip to West Kazakhstan region, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the Ural transformer plant, opened as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held bilateral meetings with the heads of the world's largest companies who arrived in the city of Askar Mother Nur-Sultan to participate in the international financial forum astana finance days and the council of foreign investors.
berdybek saparbayev spoke about social protection, support for gifted children, employment, development of culture and sports.
The Prime Minister instructed the state bodies to control the development of the city of Almaty, emphasizing the importance of the city in the economy of Kazakhstan.
The Head of Government noted that Kazakhstan and Mongolia have great potential to expand investment cooperation, especially in the mining, transport and logistics, construction and agricultural spheres.
98.5 billion tenge from the republican budget, 85.5 billion tenge from the local budget, and 76.1 billion tenge from private investments.
Minister of Agriculture Saparkhan Lobster spoke about new approaches to supporting the agro-industrial complex.
According to him, the main goal of the National Bank is to maintain inflation within 4-6% in 2019-2021 and the subsequent decrease to 3-5% in 2022-2024.
In general, the availability of medical services for the population is growing, "said E. birtanov.
Within the framework of the official visit of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan to Tajikistan, 11 documents were signed aimed at strengthening Kazakh-Tajik cooperation totaling more than $80 million:
according to operational data, in the whole republic the area of ​ ​ harvesting crops is 15.2 million hectares, of which 4.8 million hectares were harvested, which is 31.7% (last year - 16.2%).
this is the formation of "centers of economic growth," increasing the competitiveness of regions, ensuring a basic standard of living in all regions, "said R. Dalenov.
The group included the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Exchange of Nurymbets, the Minister of Health of the Yelzhan Birtanov, the Vice Ministers of Culture and Sports, Information and Public Development.
we work clearly in such matters, "said the chairman of the committee.
After almost half a century, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan published the international project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
In 2016-2019, 824 billion tenge was allocated to Baiterek JSC from the republican budget and the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan. this is financing the construction of rental housing, guaranteeing equity investments, supporting domestic exporters, Kazakhstan non-oil producers and service providers in foreign markets, providing rural settlements with a broadband Internet network, for 2015-2019 for the implementation of the state program for business support and development "Business Roadmap 2020," "Saryarka" is aimed at building a main gas pipeline, lending to large, incomplete and low-income families and other projects.
it is planned to combine these works with the portal of state orders, "the Minister of National Economy concluded.
Prime Minister Askar Mama paid a working visit to the region as part of the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development initiated by the first President of Kazakhstan - Head Nursultan Nazarbayev, the "economy of simple things," as well as instructions of the Head of State to generous Tokayev on the socio-economic development of the North Kazakhstan region.
Every year, thousands of rental apartments are provided to young specialists of three megacities, new jobs are created, "said the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The conference session of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin reviewed the implementation of the State Program of Infrastructure Development "Nұrly Zhol" for 2015-2019 and the project for 2020-2025.
there is also a program "economics of simple things."
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan alikhan smailov took part in the regular meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission in Minsk (Republic of Belarus).
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. Samailov and Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan made presentations.
weekends:	 to reschedule the rest days :
Business development is one of the priority areas of government work. the development of ppp is one of the priorities of the government .
R. According to the sklyar, currently 7.7 million people live in 6,443 villages (42% of the country's population).
we must teach children work. we must train them in their work .
Issues of water supply and sanitation of settlements were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan inspected the progress of the construction of a new zho-3 in the city of Askar, Mother Nur-Sultan, the progress of modernization of the fuel and energy complex.
our citizens choose as many places of rest as possible in Kazakhstan. more and more of our citizens are choosing vacation spots in kazakhstan .
to do this, subsidies and guarantees of loans from microfinance organizations will be introduced.
the main task this season is to preserve the place of Kazakh grain in traditional markets, such as the countries of central Asia - Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, as well as Afghanistan and Iran, "the Minister of Agriculture explained.
The National Museum of Kazakhstan on November 11, 2019 will open the exhibition "The Great Steppe: History and Culture" in the epigraphic museum of Athens (Greece).
in turn, the first deputy prime minister is the Minister of Finance. smailov spoke about the execution of the republican budget.
6 . Since July 1 of this year, entrepreneurs of the city are given preferential loans in the amount of up to 5 million tenge.
In order to reduce the role of the state in the economy, the head of government noted that by the end of this year the number of activities in which companies with state participation can participate will decrease by more than 30% - from 347 to 240.
the total number of employees is more than 5.7 thousand people. "
a. According to Smailov, compared to 10 months of 2018, the growth amounted to 771 billion tenge or 17%.
Within the framework of the forum, a working meeting of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama and President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov took place, at which issues of further development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries were discussed.
the issue was not on the Government's annual agenda.
in the list of state bodies directly subordinate and accountable to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, approved by the above decree:
I want to wish the forum participants new heights and creative achievements. "
works of botagous young people will also be presented, including the "piano," "dream caravan," "summer" and others.
In addition, the meeting considered issues of attracting foreign capital to the national economy and improving the investment climate of the regions of the country.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, construction work in Zhambyl, Karaganda, Kyzylorda, Turkestan regions and sko sectors has been completed.
thus, since the beginning of the year, inflation has amounted to 2.4%.
After almost half a century, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan published the international project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
akimat - developer, customer and buyer of this housing. akimat is a developer , customer and purchaser of this housing .
Compared to the same period last year, budget revenues increased by 510 billion tenge.
services, industry, construction and trade.
In October, a new mobile application egov mobile was launched.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development Atamkulov reported on the implementation of the state program.
infrastructure, energy, tourism and services.
The Prime Minister noted great prospects in the field of transport and transit, investment cooperation, agriculture, energy, the military-industrial sphere, digitalization, tourism, cultural and humanitarian ties.
Measures to improve Kazakhstan's position in the World Bank's doing business ranking and other ratings were discussed at a conference call of the Kazakh government chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin.
he also drew attention to the need to create a chain of "production - processing - implementation."
The volume of exports amounted to $37.6 billion.
during the meeting, Vice Minister of National Economy e. Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development b. kamaliyev, Vice Minister of Energy M. Myrzagaliyev reported on the implementation of the project "village - cradle of the country," the development of transport infrastructure and the oil and gas complex in the region.
The Head of State continues the social strategy of the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev and takes fundamental measures aimed at solving pressing problems of the population on the basis of continuity. head of state kassym-jomart tokayev , following the continuity principle , is pursuing the implementation of the social strategy of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and taking measures aimed at solving urgent problems of the people .
The Prime Minister urged members of the EBRD Board of Directors to continue active participation in the implementation of projects in the areas of energy, green economy, housing and communal services, development of small and medium-sized businesses, transport and the financial sector, construction of infrastructure.
The ambassadors of the European Union presented to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan three new regional projects of the EU: "components of investment activities in Central Asia," "support for international trade in Central Asia" and "EU rule of law program."
Western Europe - Western China. "
According to the Minister of National Economy, demographic changes also affect the labor market.
Kazakhs need a good design of a national character, "Saparbayev said.
First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov met with the Minister of Trade and Industry of Singapore at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum.
According to the Head of Government of Kazakhstan, in recent years relations between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan have reached a qualitatively new level and received positive dynamics.
large-scale modernization of rural infrastructure will begin in all regions of the country.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov took part in the regular meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission
our main task is stability, prosperity of Kazakhstan and improving the well-being of ordinary citizens. our main task is stability , prosperity of kazakhstan and improving the well-being of all citizens .
At the end of 2018, Kazakhstan took 69th place and rose to 3 positions.
in the pirls study, we rank 27th in terms of text understanding and reading literacy. at pirls , we are at 27th place in terms of understanding text and reading literacy .
The Prime Minister visited the construction sites of the new tourist complex and cultural center named after Kekilbayev, where he got acquainted with the progress of construction work.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov noted that in the ranking of ease of doing business, "doing business" Kazakhstan in 2019 took 28th place among 140 countries of the world.
from the point of view of technology, there is no difference in servicing "yourself" and "guests."
Due to new investments, new facilities will be built and new jobs created, "said K. Sadvakasov.
Kazakhstan can become a distributor of economic interests of European countries in the region.
in this direction, work is qualitatively organized in the Mangistau, Pavlodar regions.
For the timely execution of the instructions of the above head of state, the heads of state bodies need to take comprehensive measures, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The first President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev devoted his speech to the summit participants.
however, unprepared objects remained in three regions: in the city of nur-sultan - 97.7%, West Kazakhstan region - 99.5%, in Atyrau region - 99.5%.
low readiness for repairing water supply networks in Nur-Sultan - 71.6%, in Aktobe region - 83.8%, Turkestan - 89.9%, Shymkent - 90.5%.
The initiative of the first President of Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev on three dialogues to establish partnerships with the largest regional associations and projects in Europe and Asia, "said A. Mamin.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan held talks with the President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
This year, the event will be held on the theme "Smart cities, smart destinations," which will include about 700 people from 30 countries, tourism industry specialists, the Minister of Public Works and Housing of Indonesia, Ankara, Tallinn, Islamabad, Kazan, Tashkent, Samarkand, Tokmok, mayors of 25 cities - vice mayors of the CIS countries, Helsinki, Bangkok, etc.
The first President of Kazakhstan noted the high pace of construction of new facilities in the city.
On the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan dated September 2, the Prime Minister was informed about the development of a national action plan.
now is the time of work and development.
At the government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the draft laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the volumes of transfers of a general nature between the republican and regional budgets, budgets of cities of republican significance, the capital for 2020-2022" and "On guaranteed transfer from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2020-2022" and "On the republican budget for 2020-2022" were presented.
to date, 11 to 5 power units have been repaired, which is 45% of the annual volume, 63 to 40 boilers, which is 63% of the annual volume and 46 to 23 turbines have been repaired, which is 50% of the annual volume. as of the current date , 5 power units out of 11 have been repaired , which makes 45 % of the annual volume , 40 boilers out of 63 , which makes 63 % of the annual volume , and 23 turbines out of 46 , which makes 50 % of the annual volume .
in addition, the saparbayev berdybek visited the sports complex "Kazakhstan" and the specialized children's and youth school of the Olympic reserve "wave."
these products need to be improved and promoted, "said K. Sadvakasov.
revenues of the state budget during the reporting period were met by 102.8%.
Semipalatinsk occupies a special place in the cultural and spiritual heritage of the country and the independent history of Kazakhstan. semey has a special place in the cultural and spiritual heritage of the country and in the history of independent kazakhstan .
Kumiszhan miftakhova on behalf of more than 14 thousand residents of Talapar village of Tselinograd district of Akmola region raised the issue of electricity supply of this settlement - only 10 transformer substations operate in the village, which caused problems with power supply.
In 2019, 664 thousand professionals and 532 thousand citizens were trained, including more than 78 thousand citizens of socially vulnerable segments of the population.
the first - the candidate must work.
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov reported on the ongoing work on the development of public-private partnership in Kazakhstan.
Now work is underway to create an archaeological park "Kultobinsky town," said the first president of Kazakhstan.
we see good results of this work.
3 . Amend Presidential Decree No. 552 of 11 March 2008 approving the Regulations on the Administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Page of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2008, No. 12-13, art. 116) as follows:
The first president, President Nursultan Nazarbayev, and the head of state, regarding generously Tokayev, pay great attention to cooperation with the countries of the European Union, considering it as one of the priority areas of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, "said A. Mamin.
The bill on the status of a teacher was introduced by the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the head of state. a. developed at the initiative of Nazarbayev, "said Askar Mom.
we have such examples, "said A. Mamin.
One of the priorities of state policy in Kazakhstan is the development of education.
The head of government noted that in order to counter cybercrime, the participants of the meeting, on behalf of the first president Nursultan Nazarbayev, developed the cybersecurity concept of the "cybercalk of Kazakhstan."
The head of state has repeatedly emphasized the importance of this direction in the work of the government.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan at the Government meeting chaired by Askar Mamin said that the President of Kazakhstan "flourishes for everyone! continuity. justice. lifting "and the action plan for the implementation of proposals received from citizens during the national action" together. "
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, repair by 99.3% has been completed in the city of Arys.
this is one of the highest rates in the republic.
At the government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, measures to implement the message of the head of state "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" were considered.
A. Mamin visited one of the largest and systemically forming enterprises of Pavlodar region - the white stone branch of kazchrome, where he got acquainted with the renovation of melting furnaces, which will increase ferrochrome production by 87% by 2024 compared to 2018.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "good to everyone! continuity. justice. "the rise and measures to implement the proposals received from citizens during the national rally" together, "the first deputy prime minister is the Minister of Finance. smailov and deputy prime minister.
Among them are members of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, employees of the capital akimat, representatives of state and public organizations, students, volunteers.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov took part in the regular meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
we have great potential for the development of economic relations, "said Askar Mamin," prospects for deepening mutually beneficial cooperation between countries in the fields of energy, agriculture, healthcare, information technology, logistics, tourism, aircraft industry.
The housing stock and infrastructure of the city of arys will be restored as soon as possible, "said the head of government.
assets of the Baiterek holding at the end of the year amounted to KZT4,719 billion (103% of the plan).
The first president of Kazakhstan - President Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev and the head of state focus on the development of the capital. the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev pay special attention to the development of the capital .
successful projects with French companies danone, lactalis and souflet.
The Head of Government got acquainted with the start of the construction of a new international airport.
investments increased by 8.2%. investments grew by 8.2 % .
First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev set us the task of developing the economy of simple things, "in which light industry has a special role.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State voiced at the XVIII Congress of the Nұr Otan Party and voiced by the Head of State in a message to the people of Kazakhstan in September 2, within the framework of the "village - cradle of the country" project, work is underway to modernize the social and engineering infrastructure of rural areas.
During the visit to Turkestan region, Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented projects for the construction of an amusement park in the park of the first president.
The principles of "transition" and "presumption of loyalty" would be incorporated into the legislation.
The head of state at the meeting on economic issues instructed to take measures to preserve the macroeconomic, financial and social stability of the country, A. Tokayev said. "
The construction sector is the most dynamically developing sector of the economy of Kazakhstan, whose growth is 11.5%. the construction sector is the most dynamically developing sector of the kazakhstan economy - 11.5 % growth .
It is necessary to strengthen the work on repaying the receivables of enterprises in the regions for the supplied gas and coal and public utilities, the Prime Minister said.
we are seeing competition at the same time, "said the Aibek of the Algerians.
currently, work has been completed by 97.4%.
The First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance reported on the work carried out in this direction. smailov reported.
inflation in annual terms - 5.3%.
The results of the harvesting campaign were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister stressed that the Government of Kazakhstan is faced with the task of increasing the competitiveness of the Kazakh economy.
This was reported by the press service of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
In general, we support the new approaches and believe that a lot of work has been done by the Ministry of Agriculture. " sauer.
we see the first results, "said A. Mamin.
the relevant ministry, the national Olympic committee, federations and regions. there should be close interaction between the relevant ministry , the national olympic committee , federations and regions .
Also, the first president of Kazakhstan was presented information about the project to create an archaeological park "Kultobinsky town."
oilseeds are placed on an area of ​ ​ 2.9 million hectares, fodder crops - on 3.3 million hectares, cotton - on 131.1 thousand hectares, sugar beets - on 19.6 thousand hectares, potatoes and vegetable crops - on 191.3 and 261.1 thousand hectares, respectively.
It was attended by members of the government, heads of national holdings and development institutions.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the VI Congress of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
the total amount of projects is 2,011,8 billion tenge.
Issues of rising food prices were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister.
The next meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin considered measures to improve the provision of targeted social assistance.
Head of Government of Kazakhstan Asar Mama and President exxon mobil production company nill. Duffin discussed the implementation of joint projects and noted the importance of introducing new high-tech solutions.
in the near future we will work on this work. in the near future , this work will be done by us .
general work is carried out normally. in general , work is being carried out as usual .
The State Corporation for Citizens provides state services for the reception and issuance of documents through 1656 branches of the Cossack Post, 348 front offices, 16 specialized, 17 migration and 18 digital tsons.
Today, more than 7 million users are registered on the basis of mobile citizens, more than 645 thousand citizens have downloaded telegram bots, a mobile mobile mobile application - 205 thousand citizens, "he said.
the previous indicators on the expected duration of education (53 places) and the "citation of publications" (110 places) were preserved, "said A. Aimagambetov.
About 100 technical assistance projects in transport and agricultural complexes, education, healthcare, the development of small and medium-sized businesses and other areas were financed for $49 million.
New multidisciplinary hospitals will be built in Kazakhstan within the framework of the state health program for 2020-2024. new multidisciplinary hospitals will be built in kazakhstan as part of the state health care development program for 2020-2024 .
Azerbaijan is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan. azerbaijan is a strategic partner of kazakhstan .
We must do a lot to achieve our goals, "the Prime Minister said.
In turn, the chairman of the board of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs. myrzakhmetov noted that the main result of the implementation of the "start business" project in three years is the launch of more than 20 thousand new business projects.
we have achieved good results. we have achieved positive results .
within three months after the first meeting of the parties on topical issues of trade, economic and investment cooperation, including the promotion of Kazakhstan's exports to the EU, agriculture, cooperation in the field of energy, transport, customs, environment and climate change, Legislative measures to improve the investment climate in Kazakhstan, as well as in the trade configuration held on September 30 this year. "Kazakhstan - EU."
The Head of Government noted that one of the priorities of Kazakhstan's economic policy is the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
On behalf of the head of state, changes will be made to the state program for the development of the clan in October 2019, including ensuring the stability and transparency of state support measures for the agro-industrial complex, determining the combination of mutual obligations of the agro-industrial complex, involving transnational corporations in the modernization/reconstruction of processing plants, and taking measures for the rational use of land resources.
At the government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, measures to implement the message of the head of state "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" were discussed.
In the aviation sector of samruk-kazyn there are two airlines - Air Astana company with branches fly arist and qazaq air.
During the talks, a wide range of issues on the further development of cooperation in trade, economic, investment, energy, transit transport, construction, textile, automotive, cultural, humanitarian, tourism and other areas were discussed.
a new housing program is being developed, "said A. Mamin.
Ambassador to Kazakhstan U. During the meeting with Moser, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance A. smailov discussed the development of economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the United States of America.
fortebank branch in Turkestan
At the government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, measures to implement the message of the head of state "constructive public dialogue is the basis for the stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" were discussed.
in terms of the budget, the plan for the current year is exceeded compared to last year. regarding the budget part , the plan for the current year is overfulfilled , and in comparison with last year .
cooperation between our countries is dynamically developing in all spheres, the basis for bringing bilateral relations to a qualitatively new level has been laid. cooperation between our countries is developing dynamically in all areas , the foundation has been laid for bringing bilateral relations to a qualitatively new level .
Issues of labor relations regulation were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The Minister of National Economy reported on the results of socio-economic development for 10 months of this year.
to prevent formalism, it is necessary to improve their work, he said.
we also have a lot of talented children. we have many gifted children .
this indicates insufficient work of akimats of regions and ministries of agriculture, national economy, trade and integration, "A. Mamin said.
Today, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan at the government meeting chaired by Askar Mamin reported on the results of the implementation of the state budget for 5 months of this year.
for example, on the site, the taldykorgan is overgrown, "said the mare.
We export to the CIS countries: the Russian Federation, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia, "said A. Sauranbaev.
here "samruk-kazyna" is white, "kazatomprom" uak, "kazmunaigaz" uk, "kazpost," "successful star" and international corporations google, "wargaming," "genesis mining" post electronic data, systematize and reserve.
The opening ceremony was attended by Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Roman Sklyar, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Turchin, as well as representatives of business and diplomatic circles of the two countries.
The head of government urged the Shu countries to use the international center for the development of "green" technologies and investment projects created in Kazakhstan to develop a strategy for sustainable development and exchange best practices.
he noted that the country's leadership pays special attention to the fulfillment of social obligations of the state and the development of the social sphere.
she will continue the baton in the Year of Youth.
To date, 2,300 enterprises have implemented international and national standards for occupational safety and health (ohsas 18001, mot-suot), and 15 thousand enterprises have production councils for occupational safety and health.
beef, lamb, live horse, fish, honey, wheat, wheat, soybeans, gum, rapeseed sesame, barley, corn, wheat flour, dairy products, wool raw materials, flax seeds, pork, fodder wheat flour.
manufacturing grew by 3.3%. Dalenes.
it was important to continue to work with all partners.
Prime Minister Askar Mamin presented the new minister to the staff of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan.
transport and infrastructure, energy and housing and communal services, education, culture and sports.
new approaches create more favorable conditions for American partners, "said A. Mamin.
cost execution also improved, expenditure in mb - 98.7%, expenditure in Rb - 99.2% and expenditure in mb - 98.4%.
At the last meeting, we developed a work plan for the commission for 2019-2020, which is now agreed with the president, "said A. Mamin.
This situation requires effective measures, including from project operators, the Prime Minister said.
all regions should be ready by the end of the year, "Saparbayev said.
Heads of the Ministries of Defense, Labor and Social Protection of the Population, Health, Industry and Infrastructure Development, Internal Affairs, Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry reported on social support measures, medical services, and housing rehabilitation work.
The share of SMEs in the economy is 28.5%.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov spoke at the session of the Eurasian Economic Union, the strategy of the future.
Governor of Turkestan region Shukeev, chairman of the supervisory board of the consortium of bi-holding company a. Rahumbayev and chairman of the board of the Turkish company "yda holding" a. Hussein signed a document on mutual cooperation on the project to build a multidisciplinary regional medical center with 610 beds.
revenues of the state budget increased by 114.6% compared to the same period last year. smailov.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan met with the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan William Moser.
we need reforms to rectify this situation, "he said.
we highly appreciate the participation of Turkish companies in the implementation of economic projects in Kazakhstan.
In order to stabilize prices for socially important food products in the offseason and take operational measures to prevent possible speculative jumps, in May 2018, akimats were transferred the functions of regulating prices for socially important food products.
I am sure that this business forum will give impetus to the development of business relations and economies between the two countries, "said the Prime Minister of Mongolia.
To ensure the mass participation of business in the program, a loan advisory service was created in all 17 regions on the basis of business service centers, as well as local project offices included deputy akims of the regions as co-chairs.
the structure of the sown areas includes cereals (wheat, barley, oats), oilseeds (sunflower, linseed oil), corn for silage, annual and perennial herbs, potatoes, vegetables.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov took part in the regular meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission in Yerevan (Republic of Armenia).
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development b. atamkuls, Minister of National Economy r. dalen, Minister of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources m. Vice Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Energy, Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry, Trade and Integration, Management of National Companies, etc., Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the environmental action "Together - Clean Kazakhstan" to clean up the reservoir.
they are provided with various technologies, including fiber-optic networks, 3g and 4g networks, "the minister said.
this was an effective government measure aimed at creating normal conditions for business development from year to year.
trade grew by 7.5%, transport - by 5.6% and communications - by 4.5%.
The Head of Government examined the renovated building of the railway station "arys-1" and the square in front of it, visited the restored enterprise "Arysskaya Mineral Water," got acquainted with the construction of a new microdistrict consisting of 50 two-room cottages for 100 families with completely destroyed houses.
The volume of financial resources attracted to the national economy depends on this, "the head of state said.
According to the results of 10 months of the current year, the growth rate of revenues to the state budget amounted to 14%, which is 911 billion tenge more than in the same period last year.
within the framework of this concept, we try to cover all available products, "said K. Sadvakasov.
these are projects for the repair and reconstruction of social (schools, hospitals, cultural and sports facilities) and engineering infrastructure (roads, water, electricity, heat supply, etc.).
Prime Minister Askar Mama met with Senior Minister and Coordinator for National Security of the Republic of Singapore teo chi hin, who is on a working visit to Kazakhstan.
As part of a visit to Turkey a. Mamin visited the city of Kayseri, where he got acquainted with the activities of the city hospital, which since 2018 became the first project in the field of health in Turkey, implemented according to the model of public-private partnership.
Over the years of independence, French companies have invested more than $16.4 billion in Kazakhstan.
this year, a pilot project under the "turnover" scheme is planned in five regions: Nur-Sultan, Almaty, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Almaty regions.
At the Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Asar Mamin, measures to improve Kazakhstan's position in the World Bank's doing business ranking and other international ratings were considered.
thus, the project will pay off and will not weigh into the state budget.
category ii - partial reimbursement of investments from the budget.
Minister of Digital Development, Innovation and Aerospace Industry of Kazakhstan Askar Zhumagaliyev reported on the development of the industry.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the construction site of the future international airport in Turkestan.
According to the Minister, there is a positive dynamics in Kazakhstan, in 2011 in the ranking there are 5 universities, in 2019 - 10 universities.
Over the years of independence, French companies have invested more than $16.4 billion in Kazakhstan.
The Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin considered new approaches to providing targeted social assistance based on the principles of transparency, fairness and motivation to work.
The Economic Investigation Service has recently been reformatted and streamlined. " smailov.
In area II of ensuring the rights and security of citizens, 15 events will be implemented to implement the monitoring of court decisions and the evaluation of judges, the testing of the system of "digital analytics of judicial practice," the reorganization of the work of the administrative police committee based on international best practices.
a. Mother's first president is the head of state. As part of the execution of Nazarbayev's order, in order to reduce the cost of air tickets and increase competition, Flyaristan Airlines was created, which will begin operating flights to the airport from May 2020.
After the completion of the construction of all planned facilities, we expect an increase in the number of tourists. upon completion of the construction of all planned facilities , we expect an increase in touristm .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to Kostanay region, where he got acquainted with the progress of industrial and infrastructure development of the region.
In Almaty, the Head of Government of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the city asset.
The President instructed you to lead a very important direction and organize the work of a new state body, to fulfill the tasks set, "said Prime Minister Askar Mamin, instructing to quickly solve all organizational issues and begin work.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the stadium, hospital, school and got acquainted with the progress of repair work.
in different years, he worked as Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, served as Deputy Head of the Prime Minister's Office.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid an official visit to Kazakhstan.
at a meeting with representatives of the American general electric company under the leadership of the chairman of the board, president, chief executive officer of the baker hughes, general electric lorenzo simonelli group of companies, issues of further development of investment cooperation were considered.
The head of government noted that the first president of Kazakhstan - President Nursultan Nazarbayev and the head of state pay great attention to the established cooperation with leading international financial institutions, including the relatively generous Tokayev.
this is the second meeting of this council, "said the head of state.
because all materials, reinforced concrete products are of all Kazakhstan production, "he said. aidars.
we must carry out coordinated work to effectively solve the tasks set, "said Askar Mamin.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the forsite session "Development of long-term competitiveness of Kazakhstan" between the Askar mother and the President of the Asian Development Bank (Adb) takehiko nakao Adbom and the Government of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan met with the head of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov, and also took part in the congress of the world urban parks.
As part of the execution of the order of the President of Kazakhstan Tokayev at the enlarged government meeting of July 15, 2019, a set of measures to reform and increase the efficiency of Kazagro Holding JSC was considered and approved, and specific instructions were given to its leadership:
the first president is the head of state. As Nazarbayev and Head of State Tokayev have repeatedly noted, the development of the agro-industrial complex is an important factor in the diversification of the economy. as was repeatedly noted by the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev , the development of the agricultural sector is an important factor in diversifying the economy .
next year we will summarize the results of the pilot project, "the Prime Minister concluded.
it is necessary to clearly monitor the fulfillment of conditions when providing microcredit and receiving grants, "said the head of government.
grain crops - 15.4 million hectares (of which 11.4 million hectares are wheat), oilseeds on an area of ​ ​ 2.9 million hectares, cotton - 131.1 thousand hectares, sugar beets - 19.6 thousand hectares, potatoes and vegetable crops - 452.4 thousand hectares, fodder crops - 3.3 million hectares.
we are interested in further developing cooperation between our peoples and states and bringing them to a qualitatively new level, "he said.
the composition of the expedition will take the following route: - uak - door valley - gorge - horizontal - karakol - juice - tokmok - algae - talas - taras - akmeshit cave - sauran - turkestan - lion - otyrar - shymkent - tashkent - samarkand - kazygurt - merke - stigma - lat.
First President of Kazakhstan - Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev together with you laid the foundation for bringing bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan to a new level of strategic cooperation. the first president of kazakhstan - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev , together with you , laid the foundation for bringing bilateral relations between kazakhstan and uzbekistan to a new level of strategic cooperation .
Over the past 27 years, the volume of investments in Kazakhstan has exceeded $9 billion in more than 260 projects, "said A. Mamin.
Summing up the report, the Mayor of Shymkent noted that according to the results of the implementation of the comprehensive plan, more than 3.5 trillion tenge is expected by 2023, the volume of industry will double and more than 60 thousand jobs will be created.
The influx of direct French investments in the economy of Kazakhstan in the first half of this year increased by 24% to $537 million.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Alikhan Smailov spoke at the event.
Therefore, our main task is to adequately organize and hold all planned events, "the Prime Minister said.
In general, the implementation of the new state program "Nұrly zhol" will create 551 thousand jobs, of which 48.5 thousand. - stable and 502.2 thousand temporary, the volume of investments in the fixed capital of the transport industry from 1.1 to 3.4 trillion tenge by 3 times, the volume of transit by rail - from 18.1 million to 26.9 million tons, by road - from 1.6 million to 3 million tons per year.
a. According to Smailov, "an effective state that meets the requirements of our time" In the direction of i, 11 measures are envisaged aimed at forming proposals for the work plan of the National Commission for Modernization, strengthening the quality of work on appeals from citizens and organizations, gradually reducing the number of state employees and employees of national companies by 25%, issuing permits for peaceful rallies in certain places, taking into account accessibility for participants.
The Prime Minister was informed about the projects on the construction of engineering networks to provide new microdistricts with water, heat, gas, electricity.
it is planned to solve issues in the field of water resources provision, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
We will also continue to work within the framework of the government-approved Roadmap for reducing industrial injuries for 2019-2023, the minister said.
The head of government got acquainted with the construction of the multifunctional hotel and tourist complex "aktau resort hotel," as well as with the work of the enterprises "Kazazot," "evergreen refining" and the bakery "maga-bread."
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Minister of National Economy of the Dalen River, as well as chairman of the national bank e. Dossayev made a report.
for example, buckwheat cereal - by 46.3%, and since the beginning of the year - by 62.9%; rice - by 0.7%, from the beginning of the year - by 32.3%; flour - by 10.2%, since the beginning of the year - by 27.8%.
The composition of the expedition went in the following direction: Almaty - uak - door - sharyn - kolsay - karakol - kazhi - pumpkin - tuzmak - tuzmak - talas - taraz - akmeshit cave - sauran - turkestan - arystanbab - autumn - shymkent - tashkent - samarkand - samarkand - kazygurt - merke - mann.
This is done in order to eliminate corruption and make the work of officials more transparent, "he said.
our projects are advanced in the country. our projects are considered advanced in the country .
Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan R. Dalenov noted that since the beginning of this year inflation has remained within the corridor of 4-6%.
Uzbekistan is the third trading partner of Kazakhstan, the Prime Minister said, noting the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
In addition, in the region, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan examined the enterprises of the "economy of simple things" industries.
Prime Minister Askar Mama as part of the delegation of the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev took part in the opening of the reconstructed pavilion "Kazakhstan" at the exhibition of achievements of the national economy.
During a government meeting chaired by Prime Minister A. Mamin, the issue of the "economy of simple things" was considered.
Kazakhstan is an important partner of Switzerland in Central Asia. kazakhstan is an important partner of switzerland in central asia .
countries such as Italy, Switzerland, Cyprus and the United Kingdom.
We expect that the project to improve household incomes of residents of the Zhambyl region will help increase the income of 131 thousand families of the region, including about 70 thousand self-employed and unsuccessfully employed citizens, form individual entrepreneurs, reduce the number of recipients of targeted social assistance, "concluded B. Nurymbetov.
Kazakhstan has no analogues to this equipment.
Since the beginning of the Nұrly zhol program, the volume of cargo transportation on inland waterways has increased by 86% - from 750 thousand tons to 1.4 million tons, transitional navigation along the Irtysh River has been restored and the quality of navigable waterways has been improved.
The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov, Deputy Prime Ministers - Berdybek Saparbayev and Victory Kassymbek, Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalen, Chairman of the Counting Committee Natalya Godunova, as well as the leadership of the presidential administration.
It is also necessary to strengthen work to improve indicators in international trade, health and the financial sector, "the Prime Minister said.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the President on exploration and production of asar-mom in Europe, Eurasia and the Middle East.
According to K. Kelimbetov, the number of registered enterprises of the regulator ahko is 26 countries (Aksh, Great Britain, Switzerland, China, Hong Kong and Grew to 235 companies, including the Chinese development bank, Chinese construction bank, wood & co There are large investment banks such as (Czech Republic) and cicc (Hong Kong), by the end of 2020 their number will increase to 500.
Representing the asset of Kyzylorda region of the new akim of the region, Askar Mama joyfully noted the significant experience of Iskakov at the regional and central levels: since 2015 he held the position of deputy akim of Kyzylorda region, for many years he worked in the system of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2019, 129.2 billion tenge is provided for the social sphere.
deputy chairman of the "National Company" kazakh tourism "t. dusengaliyev, leader of the expedition a. Akhmedzhanov, expedition participants: traveler and founder of the company "nomad 4x4" Sagnaev, host of the author's project "Darkhan steppe" on the TV channel "Khabar 24," general manager for information coverage kazaqgeography a. Zhumataeva.
For 9 months of this year, trade between Kazakhstan and France grew by more than 6% to $3.4 billion.
all opportunities are created.
next year we must ensure full travel on the Taldykorgan - growth "and" Karaganda - Almaty, "said A. Mamin.
The first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev and the head of state regarding generously Tokayev pay great attention to cooperation with the United States. the first president of kazakhsta - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the head of state kassym-jomart tokayev pay great attention to cooperation with the ebrd .
in addition, from July 1, 2019, state purchases of furniture products and light industry products will be carried out only among domestic producers by preliminary qualification, where the main criterion of the supplier is an industrial certificate.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also informed about the results of infrastructure projects in the regional center.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, measures to implement the message of the Head of State "constructive public dialogue is the basis of stability and prosperity of Kazakhstan" were discussed.
In this factor, Kazakhstan takes 64th place.
imports amounted to $24.5 billion.
enterprise development, maternal, housing and engineering and communication infrastructure, housing and communal services, social and transport infrastructure.
there are great prospects for young people. there are large prospects for young people .
The work of the national commission on modernization is under special control of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev. the work of the national commission for modernization is under the special control of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev .
This requires funds in the amount of 7.2 billion tenge, "the akim said.
this project was implemented on the direct instructions of the first President of Kazakhstan - the leader of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. this project was implemented on the direct instructions of the first president - elbasy nursultan abishevich nazarbayev .
the State fully fulfils all social obligations.
Prime Minister Askar Mama, Chairman of the National Bank of Erbolat Dossayev, as well as Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Berdybek Saparbayev made a report.
Of the 66 social facilities, 62 are undergoing restoration work, new construction is being carried out at 4 facilities.
It should be noted, that within the program of "Nrla zher" in 2018 12.5 million apartment of meters of housing are entered that makes 0.68 sq.m on one resident of the country and are the highest rate among the CIS countries.
Concerned public authorities should continue to work in a coordinated manner in this regard. the relevant state bodies need to continue coordinated work in this direction .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the plenary session of the Eurasian Forum "The Future of Energy Sources: Innovative Development."
during the meeting, the Prime Minister a. Mamin, Chairman of the Majilis of Parliament n.nigmatulin, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance a. Smailov, deputy prime minister B. Saparbayev. The reports of the sclar were heard.
the future agreement will be an important tool for increasing trade, economic and investment cooperation between our countries, "he said. smailov.
47 officials are dismissed from their posts for violation of safety and safety regulations at the request of the labor inspector due to a real threat to the life and health of workers.
Issues of tax and customs administration were considered at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The United States will remain one of the main partners and investors of Kazakhstan, "said the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the first President of Kazakhstan in January 2018. a. Nazarbayev and President of Kazakhstan D. Trump emphasized the importance of implementing the agreements reached, as well as expanding the range of mutually beneficial interaction.
to do this, new coefficients were introduced.
The Prime Minister heard the reports of the akims of West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Mangistau regions and the city of Nur-Sultan, who are lagging behind in a number of economic indicators, as well as the heads of ministries that have not mastered budget funds - ecology, geology and natural resources (10.6 billion tenge), education and science (9.3 billion tenge), culture and sports (6.1 billion tenge), digital development, innovation and 5.1 billion tenge.
Since 2017, the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development has been monitoring the production of independent boiler houses located in apartment buildings, educational facilities, and the social sphere in violation of established building standards and rules (transport).
this will allow us to give working youth 2019, 2020 thousand rental apartments in 2021 and 3 years, "said R. Sklyar.
the most important projects are implemented in such sectors as transport and infrastructure, energy and housing and communal services, education, healthcare, "said A. Mamin.
"All social obligations of the State must be strictly and fully implemented."
In Aksu, as part of the entrepreneurship support map, the Prime Minister got acquainted with the largest project in the region - the reconstructed power unit No. 5 of the Eurasian Energy Corporation white-stone power plant, which is scheduled to be commissioned in December this year.
According to Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev, the issue under consideration is relevant for the Government of Kazakhstan and is actively discussed at various venues.
According to the Minister of National Economy, the first five-year plan of the program will end this year.
therefore, I urge our active youth to take part in this work and try their hand, "said Marat Daveshov.
construction work is being carried out intensively. construction is being carried out at a dynamic pace .
participants reviewed the methodology and international experience of the forsite, and also discussed and developed roadmaps and an action plan for 5 sectors: infrastructure for the development of the agro-industrial complex, tourism as a key part of the economy, the smart city application for waste processing, a forsite for industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, increasing competitiveness through regional development.
these are onions, carrots, potatoes, beets, rice, flour, conin, lamb, beef and bread.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mother Minister of Economy and Finance of France has met with the Mayor.
among them - the ability of domestic producers to place goods at all trade facilities, approval of a trade premium to socially significant food products in the amount of no more than 15% and a ban on receiving surcharge from suppliers, preventing seasonal price increases for 4 main commodity items (onions, potatoes, carrots, cabbage).
the fund is the owner of shares of such global technology leaders as alibaba, yahoo, uber.
According to the results of 10 months of 2019, more than 10 million users were registered on the egov portal, 36.5 million services were received (in 2018 - 27.5 million services).
we are ready to create this system and connect all interested state bodies and organizations to it, "said B. Sultanov.
According to the speaker, funds are provided for this for the next two years.
gardens (translated from Persian - "giant men") - fabulous ancestors of Kazakhs.
to do this, government agencies need to complete the integration of information systems.
during this time, large infrastructure and industrial projects were implemented.
global trends are the same for Kazakhstan. global trends are fair for kazakhstan .
11 measures are planned for the transport infrastructure block, including the construction of a new passenger terminal at the airport, the construction and reconstruction of roads, as well as the planned construction of a road bridge to the southern ring road in the city of Shymkent.
He noted that the state will strengthen the work on social support for needy citizens.
The first President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the construction of the administrative and business center.
this technology has no analogues in the world.
For 11 months of this year 454 projects worth $8 million were implemented. For 487 projects worth $10 million, commissioning is planned, construction and installation work has begun on 3.4 projects worth $21 billion.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan r. dalen.
the samruk-kazyn fund plays a special role in the country's national economy.
we are young people - the future of Kazakhstan.
Students, young entrepreneurs, workers, athletes, volunteers gathered at the meeting.
coal exports amount to 19.8 million tons, which is 100.4% compared to the same period last year, "the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan said.
In 2018, trade amounted to $3.1 billion, and this year for 9 months amounted to $1.9 billion.
thus, we began a great construction.
The state visit of the head of state to Uzbekistan in April this year gave an additional impetus to the development of bilateral cooperation, "the Prime Minister said.
Karaganda, Kyzylorda, Atyr, West Kazakhstan, Akmola, East Kazakhstan region.
at the meeting, the first deputy prime minister - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Minister of National Economy. Dalenov, Minister of Trade and Integration b. sultans, Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development b. atamkuls, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs e. Kusherbayev and other departments.
It is assumed that construction work will be carried out in 2020-2022.
this is just the beginning of work. this is just the beginning .
Together, a purely Kazakhstani action will improve the environmental situation in the country, "said Askar Mamin.
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance a. Smailov presented a draft law "On the republican budget for 2020-2022."
By September 1, all textbooks must be delivered to each school 100%. by sep. 1 , 2019 , all textbooks should be 100 % delivered to each school .
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin at a meeting with the staff of the new Ministry of Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources presented the Magzum of Myrzagaliyev, who was appointed Minister of the Department by the decree of the President of Kazakhstan.
At the Government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, measures were considered to improve Kazakhstan's position in international ratings, including in the World Bank's doing business ranking.
New Zealanders, Singapore and Hong Kong lead the doing business ranking.
Shymkent has great economic potential. shymkent has a great economic potential .
As a result, more than 400 thousand jobs were created, the share of transport in them is 8.3% of labor productivity - 1.7 times, total transit of containers - transit revenues 271 times, from 825 thousand to 3 thousand containers in twenty-foot equivalent - 4.3 times, from 180 billion tenge to 782.4 billion tenge, the volume of transit of freight traffic increased one and a half times, from 1.3 million to 1.8 million tons, transit air carriers - 4 times, to about 1 million transit passengers.
we are ready to increase our investment cooperation by creating joint investment projects, "said Askar Mom.
the law on banks and banking activities and the law on microfinance organizations are amended to establish a ban on the accrual of penalties, commissions and other payments on loans with overdue debt over 90 days. the law on banks and banking activities and the law on microfinance organizations will be amended to impose a ban on the charging of penalties , fees and other payments for loans with overdue debts of over 90 days .
According to preliminary calculations, tolls from toll roads will amount to 40 billion tenge a year, which will allow to switch to self-sufficiency of roads and will cover the investor's costs for the introduction of a toll collection system.
The President of the country noted that we celebrate the anniversary at the state level. the president of the country emphasized that we will celebrate the anniversary at the state level .
the basis of such relations will be the first president of Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev.
manufacturing, services and construction.
this is the level of countries such as Israel, the Czech Republic, Chile. " Dalenes.
The Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development reported on this issue.
the influx of American investments in the Kazakh economy grew by 44.7% and reached $5.3 billion, setting a new absolute record.
France is the main trade and economic partner in the European Union, "said Asar Mom, the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state. Nazarbayev and the President of France e. Macron noted the importance of implementing the planned trade and economic agenda at the asem summit in Brussels in October 2018.
by the end of this year, the share of electronic services will be increased to 80% (580 of 723 services). until the end of this year , work will be completed to increase the number of electronic services to 80 % ( 580 out of 723 public services ) .
This will allow in 2019, 2020 and 2021 to give working youth 3 thousand rental apartments, the minister said.
Therefore, work in this direction requires coordinated actions by all parties to social partnership - the state, business, trade unions, "said A. Mamin.
The government will take all necessary measures to implement social measures, "said Askar Mamin.
the share of the transport sector in gross national product in 2018 is 7.9% compared to 2014 as a result of such a large-scale investment from 8.2%, and according to the results of this year - By 8.3% It is expected that more than 400 thousand jobs will be created, labor productivity increased 1.7 times, from 5 million 100 thousand tenge per person to 8 million 700 thousand tenge.
In turn, the purpose of the agreement signed between valmont industries, global beef (kk) and kusto group (kr) is to create a joint venture to build a plant in Kazakhstan for the production of modern irrigation plants with a capacity of at least 1000 systems per year with an investment of $50 million.
Under the chairmanship of acting Prime Minister, an interim meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held.
assets of the national fund increased by 2.4% to $59.4 billion, revenues of the republican budget - 7677.6 billion tenge (100.8% of the plan), the growth rate was 112.6%.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Mamin introduced to the staff of the new Ministry of Trade and Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan the leader appointed by the decree of the head of state.
there are two ways to solve this problem. there are two ways to resolve this issue .
The Prime Minister gave specific instructions to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development and Akimat of Akmola region.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov got acquainted with the document.
ahko is one of the largest Kazakhstan projects. aifc is one of the largest projects in kazakhstan .
we are interested in expanding economic cooperation and implementing joint investment projects. " Maurer.
in the Mangistau region - 94.2%, Kyzylorda region - 99.2%, Shymkente - 99.3%.
The Prime Minister was informed about the ongoing work on the development of the city's transport and energy infrastructure.
for example, the national low-cost airline fly arisan has opened new directions at affordable prices.
The first President of Kazakhstan also spoke about the plans of the akimat to implement infrastructure projects.
The project to build a multidisciplinary regional hospital with 500 beds with an advisory and diagnostic center in Petropavlovsk was signed by Governor of North Kazakhstan region Aksakalov and Chairman of the Board of the Turkish company yda holding. Hussein.
In the future, it is planned to produce up to 240 thousand tons of products annually, "said A. Mamin, noting that "the complex of gas treatment systems and the use of electricity instead of coal completely neutralize harmful emissions into the atmosphere, respectively, the negative impact on the environment will be minimal."
The analysis is carried out on 10 indicators, including the time to create a new business and the cost of money, obtaining a building permit, access to electric power infrastructure, registration of property rights, obtaining loans, protecting the rights of minority investors, taxation, international trade, etc.
this applies to the dialogue between the State and society.
In total, during the years of independence, $125.1 billion of European investments were attracted to the economy of Kazakhstan.
as part of the "Business Roadmap 2025" for micro and small businesses, measures will be implemented to support new and social projects.
the second stage - the development of the mobile communication network (4g) is planned to cover 3,143 villages: in 2019 - 574, in 2020 - 1,046 and in 2021 - 1,523 villages.
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of the execution of the republican budget in January-September 2019 and the socio-economic development of the country were considered.
improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis is the main direction of the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "Askar Mamin said.
2 . To transform the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption (Anti-Corruption Service) into the Anti-Corruption Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Anti-Corruption Service) into a public body directly subordinate and accountable to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in particular, the Ministries of National Economy, Foreign and Internal Affairs and the National Security Committee.
these are countries such as Israel, Iceland, Malaysia. " Dalenes.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan at the government meeting chaired by Minister of National Economy R. Dalenov presented the forecast of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan for 2020-2024.
developed a new mobile application egov mobile.
this is still not enough. this is not so much .
Since the beginning of the year, more than 23.7 thousand people have undergone short-term training, 45.4 thousand people have been trained in the basics of entrepreneurship, 11.6 thousand microcredits have been issued, of which 90% are in rural areas.
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was informed about the construction of administrative, social, historical and cultural facilities.
at the meeting, the first deputy prime minister - Minister of Finance a. smailov, Minister of National Economy r. dalen and manager ahko.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, new approaches of state support for the agro-industrial complex were considered.
As part of his working trip, Askar Mama also got acquainted with the construction of the republican highway Aktobe - Atyrau - Border of the Russian Federation (Astrakhan) with a length of 319 km, the reconstruction of the local highway "South Bypass of Aktobe," and also visited the multifunctional complex of the roadside service "ibg catering."
investment and trade and economic cooperation between our countries is actively developing.
At the Government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, a number of measures were considered to improve Kazakhstan's position in international ratings.
this is the level of countries such as Italy, Estonia, Chile.
By the end of this year, it is planned to commission 4 power facilities with a capacity of 104.8 MW, including 1 wind power plant in the North Kazakhstan region, 2 solar power plants in the Kyzylorda region and 1 audio in the East Kazakhstan region, which will increase the total capacity of jack facilities by almost 2 times - up to 1042 MW from 2018 (531.63 MW).
During the visit, a meeting was held with the Prime Minister of Azerbaijan, Novruz Mammadov.
in addition, the prospects of cooperation with companies such as lindegas, sms group, claas group and others were discussed.
this applies to the dialogue between the State and society.
The funds provided in the republican budget will allow to fully fulfill all social obligations of the state, "said Askar Mamin.
nearby - an important political partner of Kazakhstan in the Arab world. qatar is an important political partner of kazakhstan in the arab world .
In January-August, real incomes of the population grew by 6.7%, "said the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
loans were taken for the following purposes - 60% - for startup projects (5,684), 33% - for business expansion (3,119), 7% - for the development of anchor cooperation (630).
the new programme identified important institutional conditions for the country's development.
A lot of work has been done over the year. a lot of work has been done over the year .
The work of the national commission on modernization is under special control of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev. the work of the national commission for modernization is under special control of elbasy nursultan nazarbayev .
villages with the largest amount of centralized water and high potential will be provided as a priority, and local water supply systems will be used in settlements with up to 200 people. centralized water supply will provide the most numerous and having a high village potential , and in settlements with a population of up to 200 people will use local water supply systems .
In his message to the President of Kazakhstan, Tokayev noted the need to implement structural changes that will ensure a steady annual growth of gross domestic product by at least 5% by 2025.
reference: details of the Turkestan Corporate Social Development Fund
In an interview, the Chairman of the Committee on Youth and Family Affairs of the Ministry of Information and Public Development of Madiyar Kozhakhmet spoke about the rules for providing rental housing without the right to buy back for working youth under the age of 29.
In August of this year, these rating agencies confirmed their ratings (bbb-/baa3/bbb).
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asar Mamin introduced the new Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan to the Raymkulov.
2) assign a quarterly month to all family members as the difference between the poverty line and the average per capita income of the family, in which case able-bodied family members must work, and the state will help in employment and business;
According to the results of 8 months of this year, the volume of mutual trade between our countries increased by 0.8% and amounted to $12.2 billion (8 months of 2018 - $12.1 billion).
oil companies, such as shell, width, total, irenas, are developing projects on renewable energy sources and next year the first projects of oil companies will work in Kazakhstan. the same oil companies as shell , eni , total , irena are developing renewable energy projects , and as early as next year , the first projects from oil companies will work in kazakhstan .
Roman told the students of the sklyar school-lyceum No. 85 about the impact of harmful factors on the environment, gave useful advice on preserving the environment, and also planted trees on the territory of the educational institution along with students.
As for ecotourism, these are our national parks, adventure tourism.
and without state support, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
a. Mamin held a meeting with the founder of the 42 computer programming school and the qwasar educational company in the field of dogs in Yamgnan, where he discussed the prospects for cooperation in training specialists for the digital economy of Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held meetings with representatives of Dutch companies shell, bitfury, suezgroup, farm frites, dutch fruit solutions, with whom they discussed the prospects for the implementation of projects in Kazakhstan in the fields of energy, data processing and blockchain technologies, education, processing of agricultural products, etc.
9.8 million square meters of housing were commissioned, "said the Minister of National Economy.
8.8 million square meters of housing were commissioned, "said the Minister of National Economy.
The head of government noted that by 2050, to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world, it is necessary to ensure an annual growth rate of gins of 5%, while the level of investment in fixed assets should reach 30% by 2024.
Issues of development of trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Singapore were discussed during the meeting.
2527 kindergartens (95%), 6,656 schools (99%) received acts on preparation for the heating period.
all this is a joyful work, "said the first president of Kazakhstan.
for example, in large business, you can get such privileges as the construction of ski resorts, the opening of roadside service networks, hotels and exemptions from taxes, customs duties for up to 10 years, and the receipt of a grant in the form of a plot of land.
growth is ensured by the implementation of projects of the industrialization map, the programs "Nұrly zhol," "Ray Land," gasification, the construction of the cement plant "alacem," the construction of the plant for the production of lubricants "sarybulak 2," "lukoil."
Thanks to the efforts of the first President of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of Uzbekistan Islam Karimov, cooperation between our countries has reached a qualitatively new level. thanks to the efforts of the first president of kazakhstan - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev and the president of uzbekistan shavkat mirziyoyev , cooperation between our countries has reached a qualitatively new level .
In the new academic year, 400 thousand children were enrolled in the 1st grade.
The forum also held about 10 bilateral meetings with companies covering energy, livestock, mineral production, the oil and gas industry, digitalization and automation of production, including: idemia, airbus group, cncr group, orano mining, bureau, ifp energiesnouvelles, etc.
in different years he served as deputy prime minister, assistant to the president, deputy head of the presidential administration.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov reported on the execution of the state budget.
Director of the Almaty regional branch "Kazavtodor" said that to date, more than 840 km of roads are being reconstructed and overhauled in Almaty region.
the main material incentives - doubling the fee for class guidance and checking notebooks, surcharge for pedagogical excellence, increasing the vacation time for all teachers to 56 days, surcharge for a master's degree and for mentoring, etc. - said a. Aimagambetov.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Askar Mama held a meeting in Tashkent with President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev.
this is our future.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid a working visit to Akmola region, where he got acquainted with the preparations for the XVII forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in 2020, visited a number of systemically important enterprises implemented in the areas of industrialization, housing construction, agro-industrial complex.
The main parameters of the draft republican budget have developed in the following volumes: revenues for 2020 will amount to 11.2 trillion tenge, the share of non-oil revenues is growing from the current 61.4% to 71.2% in 2022, the budget deficit is planned to be phased down to 1% to the gross domestic product in 2020.
a. According to Smilov, it is planned to adopt 6 laws to tighten a number of serious crimes against the person, poaching, introduce administrative justice, anti-corruption measures, and increase guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights.
this group includes countries such as Chile, Japan, Poland. " Dalenes.
For three years, 1.7 million people took part in the state program "labor," of which 500 thousand people have taken part since the beginning of this year, 178.8 thousand of them are youth, 12.6 thousand are people with disabilities, 15.7 thousand are low-income citizens.
under the new program, 4, 9, 10 classes will be studied, next year - 11 classes.
the total length of the crowd, which private partners plan to build, is more than 20 thousand km, including intra-village lines, the project also provides for the placement of data transmission equipment and transport network equipment.
The Prime Minister instructed to increase the pace of construction work on the roads of East Kazakhstan, Almaty and Karaganda regions.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture, in 2019, timely harvesting began in the country and, according to the akimats of the regions, 15.2 million hectares of grain crops were harvested with a total area of ​ ​ 15.1 million hectares, which is 99.2%.
The Prime Minister noted that the development of local content is under special control, measures are being taken to protect the domestic market from unsafe and poor-quality products, the functionality of the project office "Economics of Simple Things" has been increased, 10 priority product groups for import substitution have been identified.
In his election program and message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state instructed to combine existing housing programs within the framework of a single housing policy and develop the state program "Bright Land until 2025," said A. Mamin.
this will bring significant economic, political and cultural dividends for both sides, "said A. Mamin.
In the future, regular flights will open 7 times a week not only between capitals, but also between Almaty and Doha, as well as 7 cargo flights per week with a fifth degree of "air freedom" under the open sky regime introduced in Kazakhstan.
the document provides for the development of 16 bills aimed at the further development of the field of social security, physical culture and sports, control of special goods, housing relations of employees of special state bodies and military personnel, visual information, etc.
I will constantly support the work of akhko, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. On the instructions of Nazarbayev, a state program for the development of the agro-industrial complex until 2021 was adopted for the qualitative development of the agricultural sector, increasing its share in the economy, "the Prime Minister said, noting that the President of Kazakhstan set tasks to increase labor productivity in agriculture and develop the export of processed products.
the size of the state grant will increase from 3 million to 5 million tenge, working capital lending - from 60 to 180/360 million tenge.
Kazakhstan was ahead of Iceland (26th place), Austria (27th place), Russia (28th place), Japan (29th place), Spain (30th place), Armenia (47th place), Belarus (49th place), Kyrgyzstan (80th place) and many other countries.
next year, work will begin.
r. According to Dalenov, the level of development of trade and transport infrastructure is measured by the World Bank's lpi rating (logistics performance index).
Prime Minister Askar Mama took part in the opening of the forum "Space Days in Kazakhstan: Baikonur - the cradle of world cosmonautics."
Minister of Trade and Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov took part in an informal meeting of trade ministers in Shanghai (People's Republic of China) to discuss the possible results of the XXI Ministerial Conference in Nur Sultan in 2020 and reform issues.
the first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state. a. On behalf of Nazarbayev and the Head of State of Astana, in order to restore the Arysk city, all regions of the country, national companies, representatives of large businesses actively participated, "said A. Mamin, adding that" more than 10 thousand builders took part in the restoration of the city in a month. "
The design capacity of the enterprise is 700 units of equipment per year with a gradual increase in localization to 50% by 2025 (manufacture of interior/exterior elements from plastic, from 2021 - high pressure, ballast tubes, from 2025 - cabs, tanks, lifting frames, discs, snow shafts, the manufacture of an equalizer, etc.).
The Prime Minister noted that within the framework of the tasks set by the Head of State K. Tokayev at the expanded government meeting on July 15, 2019, the main priorities of the government are to improve the quality of life of the population, increase incomes, create new jobs, improve the investment climate.
this work must be carried out continuously. "
The number of consumers in the city of Arys is 9,765 subscribers, including 92 social facilities: schools - 28, hospitals - 20, kindergartens - 28, mosques - 10, administrative buildings - 6.
About the course of realization of the remained 39 steps the minister of national economy of RK P. of dalen, the chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for public service of page of lobsters, the minister of the industry and infrastructure development b. atamkul, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the minister of trade and integration of sultans, the Minister of Energy Mr. Bozumbayev, the first deputy prime minister - the Minister of Finance and. smaili and a number of members of the government.
in the pharmaceutical industry, production increased by 18%, which was made possible by an increase in production by 50% at the chimpharm plant, by 13.8% at the Nobel Diamond Pharmaceutical Factory JSC.
Chairman of the Board of the Aibatyr Zhumagulov Social Health Insurance Fund reported on the readiness of the fund to introduce memes, noting that work on the formation of institutional foundations and principles of the system began in 2015.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held talks with Deputy Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Hale, who arrived in the city of Askar-mom nur-sultan on an official visit to participate in the s5 + 1 meeting on the development of dialogue between the countries of Central Asia and Kazakhstan.
Vice Minister of Justice N. Draft plan of legislative work of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2020. taking into account the strategic instructions of Nazarbayev and the instructions of President Tokayev.
The parties discussed issues of monetary, exchange rate, fiscal policy, the situation in the banking sector, structural reforms in the economy carried out in Kazakhstan, as well as the opening in 2020 in Almaty of a regional center for technical assistance of the IMF for the countries of the Caucasus, central Asia and Mongolia.
Minister of Agriculture with. According to Omarov, according to the results of the first half of 2019, gross livestock production increased by 10.5% compared to the same period last year from 962.2 billion tenge to 1063.5 billion tenge.
In addition, we are talking about a map of support for gifted children and the Concept of the policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the interests of children until 2030.
the company not only compensates for the needs of the Kazakhstan market, but also allows exporting products to foreign markets, thereby contributing to the provision of annual agricultural revenue in the country by more than $1 billion.
According to SPIID, the program combines issues of heat, water supply and sanitation, modernization of the communal sector, repair of houses from state programs of infrastructure development and development of regions for 2015-2019 to 2020.
model contracts for the procurement of construction work have also been developed, in the framework of which, from July 1, 2019, only construction materials included in the register of domestic manufacturers are used in the procurement of construction work.
the meeting approved the adjusted development plan for 2017-2021 (for 2019-2021) and the annual budget of Baiterek Holding for 2019, the call report, the report of the internal audit service of the Holding for the third quarter of 2019, the annual budget and the work plan of the board of directors of Baiterek Holding for 2020.
while maintaining this funding by 2025, the share of roads of republican significance will reach 100% in good and satisfactory condition, it is planned to increase the share of roads of regional and regional significance to 95%.
Currently, work continues on the implementation of the provisions of the Treaty on Eurasia on topical issues of cooperation, the development of draft strategic directions for the development of Eurasian economic integration until 2025, "said A. Mamin.
Within the framework of the pilot project, project groups were created in 5 main areas: the development of regulatory legal acts, digitalization, acquisition and payment of medical services, ensuring stable payment, outreach.
all forces have been mobilized. all forces mobilized .
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan At the meeting of the National Commission for Modernization with the participation of Nigmatulin, the implementation of the national action plan for the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of September 2, 2019 was considered.
in villages with a population of no more than 200 people, the issue of water supply will be resolved by installing complex block water treatment modules, and in villages with a population of more than 200 people - through centralized water supply systems, "he said.
construction work is being carried out intensively.
in addition, a number of budget program administrators have cases of budget abandonment without implementation, the largest amount - the Ministry of Ecology - 1.5 billion tenge, the Ministry of Culture and Sports - 1 billion tenge, Ministry of Trade - 0.9 billion tenge, Almaty Governor's Office - 2.2 billion tenge, in the Governor's Office of Almaty region - 1.1 billion tenge, in the Governor's Office of Turkestan region - 1 billion tenge, in the akimats of East Kazakhstan and Karaganda regions - 0.8 billion tenge, in akimat of West Kazakhstan region - 0.7 billion tenge, in akimat of Akmola region - 0.6 billion tenge.
expenses are spent by high percentages at all levels of the budget: mb - 99.6%, rub - 99.8% and gb - 99.3%. at all levels of the budget , a high utilization of funds was achieved : state budget - 99.6 % , republican budget - 99.8 % and local budget - 99.3 % .
The Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was informed about the progress in the construction of objects of administrative, social, historical and cultural significance.
According to the results of 7 months, according to the main basic indicators, economic growth was achieved in the Karaganda, Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Turkestan and East Kazakhstan regions, "said A. Mamin.
this year, three major oil and gas projects successfully completed major repairs: overhaul at Kashagan was completed 15 days before the plan; at sea - 3 days ago, in Karachay-Cherkessk, repair work was carried out from September 15 to October 13, 2019. this year , three major oil and gas projects were successfully overhauled : in kashagan , the overhaul was completed 15 days ahead of schedule , in tengiz - 3 days , and repairs were carried out in karachaganak from sep. 15 , 2019 , to oct. 13 , 2019 .
Kazakhstan was ahead of Austria, Japan, Spain, France, Switzerland and the CIS countries.
In his speech, Prime Minister Askar Mamin noted that holding an economic forum is a way to implement the agreements of the heads of Caspian states reached during the summit on August 12, 2018 in Aktau.
The new state program of housing-and-municipal development "Nrla went" unites questions of heat and water supply, water disposal, modernization of the municipal sector, development of the state infrastructure "Nrla zhol" for 2015-2019 and repair of houses within development programs of regions till 2020.
According to the long-term forecast of cashydromet weather, in September in the western regions, temperatures are initially expected to rise to 30 ° C, then gradually decrease to 20 ° C and precipitation above normal.
Since the launch of the state program "Digital Kazakhstan in 2017," thanks to the influx of capital and advanced technologies, significant achievements have been achieved in the field of energy, transport, agriculture and services, which has become an important factor in the growth of the national economy, "said A. Mamin.
Head of the presidential administration, Secretary of State, Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister have made a great contribution to the development of the country, "A. Mamin said.
From January 1, 2020, public procurement provides for similar support measures for the services of creating and developing informatization facilities, as well as software and electronic industry products.
The road map consists of 5 main areas - provision of housing for working youth, provision of youth employment, development of education and volunteering, development of youth social activity, support of young families, health promotion and support of social inclusion. the roadmap consists of 5 key areas - providing housing for working youth , youth employment , the development of education and volunteering , the development of youth social activity , a whole range of activities aimed at supporting the young family , health and social inclusion .
cooperation in the nuclear industry occupies an important place in bilateral relations between our countries. cooperation in the nuclear field occupies an important place in bilateral relations between our countries .
A meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was held.
this work should be carried out continuously. this work should be permanent .
complex of embassy buildings consists of an administrative building, including a reception hall, a conference hall, a meeting room, offices of employees, a library, as well as a residential building, 10 apartments, 2 hotel rooms, an underground parking lot and the residence of the Ambassador of the Republic of Belarus.
energy, space, renewable energy, infrastructure development, smart city projects.
the preparation of proposals on the possibility of using part of the pension savings of working citizens, as well as on the consolidation of the extrabudgetary social security system (through the creation of a single social fund and the introduction of a single social payment) is planned for 2020.
In 2018, Kazakhstan took 39th place in the doubles ranking on the "e-government" development index, 8th place in Asian countries and 26th place in the "online service" indicator.
To increase the digital literacy of the population, a new transformation of front offices was carried out, that is, 60% of the centers are the self-service sector, the remaining 40% are the jobs of operators, "A. Topasheva explained.
In addition, by decrees of the Head of State:
teachers' rights will be protected, "he said.
this is due to the refinement of actual data at face value in 2018 from 59.6 trillion tenge to 61.8 trillion tenge and, accordingly, in 2019 - to 67.7 trillion tenge, that is, with an increase of 2.2 trillion tenge.
In Petropavlovsk, the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the opening ceremony of the Rome-Kazagro factory for the production of household chemicals and detergents, with a design capacity of 6 thousand tons of liquid and solid soap per year.
Loans were subsidized to more than 9 thousand entrepreneurs, guarantees were provided to more than 5 thousand entrepreneurs, more than 100 thousand citizens were trained in the basics of entrepreneurship and business, about 2 thousand grants were issued, infrastructure was carried out for 165 projects, "he said. Dalenes.
this year, a tax amnesty is held by writing off penalties and fines accrued when paying principal debt to small and medium-sized businesses (from January 2019) and individuals (from August 2019).
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance alikhan smailov took part on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan said this at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan today.
The company produces 71 types of medicines, which is more than a third of the total amount of medicines purchased as part of the guaranteed amount of free medical care.
Favorable conditions for doing business are estimated in 10 categories: registration of enterprises, obtaining building permits, connection to the electricity system, registration of property, obtaining loans, protection of minority investors, taxation, international trade, enforcement of contracts and insolvency resolution.
The visit to the facilities by the Deputy Prime Minister began with a visit to the old medical institution of the city - the central railway hospital, the buildings of which were built 60 years ago and are very outdated.
at the same time, moody's improved the "stable" forecast by a "positive" forecast.
For each borrower classified as a citizen in a difficult life situation, as direct and targeted financial assistance, the state repays the main debt in the total amount of up to 300 thousand tenge and the accrued remuneration.
Prime Minister a. Mamin held a working meeting on issues of socio-economic development, as well as on preparations for the XVII forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in 2020, the implementation of a development plan for the pig-boron resort zone, a special project "village - cradle of the country" and the development of the surroundings of the capital.
According to him, citizens with incomes up to 3.1 living wage (92 thousand tenge) are given the opportunity to get credit housing of akimats under the program "5-20-25" (military personnel, public sector employees, civil servants).
work should continue in this direction, and not be limited to this, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As a result, more than 16 thousand small and medium-sized businesses were financed, more than 100 thousand entrepreneurs were trained, products worth 15.5 trillion tenge were produced, taxes worth about 1 trillion tenge were paid, "R. Dalenov said.
this is higher than the republican value (4.2%).
Askar Mom visited the production workshop of the enterprise, where after reconstruction in 2019, the latest technological solutions for the processing of meat products were introduced that meet world quality standards.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamayev, amendments were made to the list of guaranteed amount of free medical care and a new list of medical care in the system of compulsory social health insurance (mms), which is planned to be launched in 2020, was approved.
due to the implementation of this plan and other programs over the past five years, industrial production increased by 38%, agricultural products - by 63%, retail trade - 1.6 times, investment in fixed assets - 1.4 times, budget - 1.8 times.
It is expected that the growth of the number of Kazakhstanis employed in the tourism sector will increase by 50% to 650 thousand people, the flow of foreign tourists will triple and exceed 9 million people, which will lead Kazakhstan to the number of the most competitive 50 tourist destinations in the world.
According to the information of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the strategy will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fulfill the terms of the Paris Agreement by 2030.
Participants in the environmental action cleared the banks of the Ishim and Karau rivers from the airport to the Karaganda highway, Lake Maybalyk, the coastal territory of the Vyacheslav reservoir, removed about 16 tons of garbage.
people with incomes exceeding 5 subsistence minimums (148.5 thousand tenge) can use existing market products to purchase housing in the primary and subsequent markets (housing-hit of the national bank, programs of the "Kazakhstan mortgage company," "housing construction bank"). atamcules.
also implemented a number of large joint investment projects in the uranium, oil and gas, titanium industries, transport engineering, the production of building materials, food and other industries, which allowed attracting over the past 14 years French investments in the amount of $15.6 billion.
In 2018, the Governor's Office of the Saryarka district of Nur-Sultan city introduced a pilot project "participation budget," which allows each population to participate in the distribution of local budget funds, which will increase the transparency of the budget process.
The meeting participants discussed measures for the further development of mass sports, the preparation of national teams for the Olympic Games and the 2020 Paralympic Games in Tokyo and other relevant issues.
of the planned 395 thousand tons, 120 thousand tons were shipped, of which 95% in July, 82 thousand tons of the planned 128 thousand tons in August.
As part of the digital Kazakhstan state program, we plan to provide high-speed Internet by the end of 2023 and introduce high-tech types of communications covering all reference and satellite rural settlements, "said A. Mamin.
The Prime Minister noted the importance of accelerating the work on the harmonization of the draft agreement on free trade in services within the CIS, and also took the initiative to develop a new program for the development of industrial cooperation of the CIS countries until 2025.
our task is to increase the volume of investments in fixed assets by an average of 20% annually and bring its level to 30% by 2025, "said Askar Mom, noting that investments in fixed assets increased by 11.7%, including private investments increased by 13%.
Over the past three years, labour inspectors, together with the procuratorial authorities, have identified 930 cases of violations of labour and migration laws, including 474 cases of non-conformity of wages at 25 enterprises, 681 permits have been withdrawn, 393 foreign workers have been removed from the country.
Housing Construction Savings Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan began preferential lending to large, incomplete families and families with children with disabilities at 10% of the initial advertising at 2% per annum.
Taking into account the planned additional increase in funds for the project to 900 billion tenge until 2027, the total amount of financing together with other state programs aimed at the development of rural areas will amount to more than 2 trillion tenge, and the number of projects - more than 30 thousand.
On July 6, 2019, the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the participation of the Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development Kassymbek Kairbek, the Governor of Turkestan region Zhayzak Shukeyev, representatives of akimats and asked the responsible persons to speed up the reconstruction of the city.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister and Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan At the meeting of the National Commission for Modernization with the participation of Nigmatulin, the implementation of the national action plan for the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of September 2, 2019 was considered.
According to the Managing Director for Transport and Logistics, Alpysbaev, the average tariff of Flaristan is 4 times lower than the tariffs of European low-cost airlines per 1 km.
Taking into account the introduction of mams in general, the budget for healthcare in 2020 in the country will amount to about 1.5 trillion tenge, including at the expense of mams more than 500 billion tenge.
The Committee on Legal Statistics and Special Accounts of the Prosecutor General's Office is working on the creation of an e-statement system, which is planned to be launched in pilot mode from 2020.
in general, 3 thousand km of roads of republican significance were built and reconstructed, including the fully completed Western European-Western Chinese international transport corridor, nur-sultan - karaganda, alma - taldykorgan, kokshetau - petropavlovsk, aktau - beinau, Ural - kamenka, bypass of the Kordai pass, the road video-akzhigit-Uzbek border.
The agricultural company Rodina was founded in 2005 on the basis of the state farm of the same name, is one of the leading peasant farms in Kazakhstan for the production and processing of crop and livestock products.
category iii - free of charge from the budget.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was informed that since the beginning of 2019 the volume of industrial production in Aktobe region exceeded 1 trillion tenge and increased by 4.9%, including chromium ore production increased by 5.7%.
In addition, the fund completed the development of a plan for the purchase of medical services for 2020 as part of free medical care and compulsory medical insurance.
The head of government noted that over the years of implementation of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" more than 2.5 thousand projects were subsidized for a total amount of loans of 14 trillion tenge, the total amount of subsidies paid exceeded 240 billion tenge.
a new model of guaranteed free medical care (GOBMP) and a package of mams provide for the introduction of a three-level medical support system from January 1, 2020.
In order to prevent wage discrimination among Kazakhstani and foreign workers, labour inspectors, together with the procuratorial authorities, have completed an audit of 95 enterprises attracting foreign labour.
Chairman of the Committee of Roads of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Sayranbek Barmakov in an interview with primeminister.kz-ке noted that since 2019 Kazakhstan has launched a national center for the quality of road assets, which will allow timely response to poor-quality construction work.
Following the meeting, the head of government of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Mamin noted 10 comprehensive measures to restore the life of the city and ensure the socio-economic development of the city.
in the village of Askar, mom visited the northern microdistrict, where the construction of nұrly private and 279 multi-storey residential buildings is provided for as part of the "Land 11" program.
The measures developed together with the NPP will allow to overload more than 1000 domestic enterprises, increase the Kazakhstan component of manufactured goods to 60%, as well as stimulate the development of industries of the "economy of simple things."
On November 14, at a meeting on the development of Akmola region, the head of state drew attention to the unjustified increase in food prices and the lack of proper control and coordination in this matter by the relevant central and local state bodies, "said A. Mamin.
On behalf of 330 residents of the working district of Almaty region, the noble baitulakov asked the party to solve the problem of the lack of centralized water supply in 11 villages of the district.
As a result, in 2021, labor productivity will increase 2.2 times compared to 2017, the volume of gross agricultural output - 1.7 times, in agriculture - 3 times.
On June 25, 2019, an agreement was signed in Paris between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on the creation of an international center for the rapprochement of cultures within the framework of UNESCO.
During the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, a draft forecast of the country's socio-economic development until 2024 was approved, as well as bills on the republican budget for 2020-2022, on the volumes of general transfers between the republican and regional budgets for 2020-2022 and on guaranteed transfer from the national fund.
The implementation of measures to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the agglomeration will provide the corresponding infrastructure for more than 730 thousand residents of the city and the region, "said A. Mamin.
Natalya Godunova, Chairman of the Accounts Committee, noted that the execution of the republican budget in 2018 took place against the backdrop of large-scale changes carried out by the government in the budget process, taking into account the proposals of the parliament and the Accounts Committee over the past year.
Following the visit, the Head of Government instructed the Mayor of the city to take all necessary measures to ensure the effective implementation of the Shymkent Comprehensive Development Plan until 2023.
To improve the position within the framework of the 5th and 6th packages of legislative initiatives on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity, 8 reforms in architectural, urban planning and construction activities were implemented.
The implementation of the NP will bring the level of urbanization in the country by 2025 to at least 62%, increase the competitiveness of the regions, improve transport, engineering, social infrastructure, and in general, the quality of life of the population.
By October 1, basic information systems of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be integrated with information systems of state bodies, providers of medical services, automation of selection of medical service providers.
he headed the ministries of economy and budget planning, finance.
In 2013, the first toll road nur-sultan - Schuchinsk with a length of 211 km was put into operation, more than 1 billion tenge will be collected per year, which compensates for the costs of maintaining this section.
Prime Minister a. Mom held talks with the head of the 500 startups venture fund in Tsai, following which an agreement was signed on joining the 500 startups global fund of the white Kazakh national development institute kaztechventures.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the Chairman of askar mamin softbank investment advisors.
Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population B. Nurymbetov introduced a bill providing for the adoption of an integrated approach and the targeted nature of social support measures from January 1, 2020.
The projects "young specialist" and "young entrepreneur" for three years provide for the training of at least 100 thousand people in the most sought-after specialties of 200. " saparbayev.
Based on the above, the volume of total expenditures of local budgets in 2020 is determined in the amount of 4.8 trillion tenge, in 2021 - 5.1 trillion tenge, in 2022 - 5.4 trillion tenge. Dalenes.
It is planned to implement three projects on the sports block, which should increase the coverage of persons systematically engaged in physical education and sports by 30% by 2023.
As of January 1, 2019, all value added tax payers have been transferred to the mandatory statement of electronic invoices.
In the field of civil aviation, according to the results of the five-year plan, the number of served passengers at domestic airports increased to 16.2 million people, 8.1 million passengers were transported, which is 47% more than in 2014.
To achieve indicative forecasts for increasing the volume of vegetable products by 2021, Kazakhstan provides for the main subsidies by partially reducing prices for seeds, fertilizers and herbicides.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan paid an official visit to Tajikistan.
According to the Deputy Head of the Government of Kazakhstan, Germany has been a strategic partner and reliable friend of Kazakhstan for many years, a powerful architecture of cooperation has been created over 27 years of establishing diplomatic relations between our countries.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Zhomartov, 90 billion tenge will be additionally allocated for the implementation of the project "Village - cradle of the country" for 2020-2022.
In 2018, the law on improving the regulation of entrepreneurial activity instead of inspections carried out as a sample introduced the institute of preventive control.
there is the potential to increase processing volumes by building new dairy farms, there is every opportunity to bring the volume of milk processing to 2.2 million tons by 2022.
thus, the share of the self-employed population will decrease by 7.5%, the share of employed in the real sector of the economy will increase by 3% due to the implementation of large investment projects in the bank, acute and manufacturing industries.
The first president of Kazakhstan is the head of state in 2019 a. On the instructions of Nazarbayev, 30 billion tenge was allocated for the annual solution of the problems of the extreme regions of large cities, including 10 billion tenge for the outskirts of Almaty.
The Prime Minister noted that it is necessary to correctly determine the priority of using 5g, for which in 2020 appropriate projects should be developed for the effective use of 5g in the regions, including, first of all, in the city of nur-sultan.
1) model rules defining the general procedure for implementing mechanisms for stabilizing prices for socially significant food products approved by the Ministry of Agriculture;
among them - an increase in the volume of subsidies for lending working capital for the implementation of projects of the agro-industrial complex, which will allow to implement 87 projects in the amount of 12 billion tenge.
From 2020, work will be carried out aimed at a gradual reduction in the number of state employees, and the released funds will be used to financially stimulate the most useful workers. starting in 2020 , we will begin to gradually reduce the number of civil servants , and we will use the released funds to provide material incentives for the most useful workers .
Today, as part of the development of the transport infrastructure of the city of Nur-Sultan, we are witnessing a very important event - full traffic opens on an 87 km bypass road in the suburbs of the capital, "said A. Mamin.
269 agricultural producers in the amount of 10.01 billion tenge were additionally financed at the expense of own funds of the agricultural credit corporation and raised funds. lobster.
The Head of Government of Kazakhstan visited the Urban Center and the aircraft repair plant No. 405, got acquainted with the new construction project of Almaty, plans for the development of the construction industry of the city, and also took part in the solemn meeting dedicated to the Day of Builders.
According to him, in general, transit of containers increased 3 times, from 271 thousand to 825 thousand twenty feet of alternative containers (housing and communal services), transit revenues increased 4.3 times, from 180 billion to 782.4 billion tenge.
implementation of these import substitution measures will make it possible by 2024 to saturate the domestic market with domestic products up to 80 and 100% with attracting investments in fixed assets of the sector of about 770 billion tenge.
in addition, r. To ensure the labor mobility of young people employed in the camp, in 2019-2021, it is planned to build 1 thousand rental apartments per year in the cities of Nur-Sultan, Almaty and Shymkent.
Currently, there is a whole legislative framework in this area, a tripartite social partnership is provided, measures are being taken to preserve safety and reduce injuries - for 10 months 13% lower than for the same period in 2018, "said A. Mamin.
In total, by 2027, financing together with the programs for the development of the treasure, BC-2020, "labor," "construction and repair of local roads" will amount to more than 2 trillion tenge. sklar.
as part of its implementation, the regulatory framework has been improved, a national information security coordination center and a cybersecurity council have been created, the level of digital literacy of the population has increased to 73%.
More than 96 thousand entrepreneurs underwent training on the components of a business school, "more than 2 thousand business entities passed" business relations, "174 entrepreneurs completed a business internship in Germany.
According to the Ministry of Finance, according to the results of 5 months, income growth at all levels of the budget is observed: in the state budget - 115%, the national budget - 119% and the local budget - 106%.
According to the strategic plan for the development of Kazakhstan, by 2025 we should reach the export rate of non-primary goods and services up to $41 billion, "he said. Mom.
According to the forecast of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan for 2020-2024, the real growth of Kazakhstan is projected in 2020 by 4.1%, with subsequent growth to 4.7% in 2024.
Kassymbek said that the issues of a moratorium on the sale and rental of agricultural land will be discussed with the public, and by the end of 2019 this issue will be submitted to the National Council of Public Trust under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
all instructions of the head of state will be completed in a timely and complete manner, "the minister said.
Governor of Turkestan region Shukeev said that in the framework of providing social assistance to residents of the city, targeted social assistance was provided to 650 low-income and large families.
at the same time, work is underway to introduce a moratorium on inspections of small, including macrobusiness for a period of 3 years from January 1, 2020, which also contributes to the creation of normal conditions for the development of entrepreneurship.
To date, we are conducting preparatory work with Azerbaijan on the construction of fiber-optic communication networks along the bottom of the Caspian Sea, the completion date of which is the end of 2021, "said A. Mamin.
Since July 1, thanks to the integration of the information systems of the Ministry of the Interior, a new business process for obtaining a driver's license and remote registration of vehicles has been launched, "said A. Topasheva.
On the results of socio-economic development of Semey city and plans until 2025 akim of the city e. First Vice Minister of Finance b. sholpankulov, Vice Minister of National Economy e. Vice Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development b. kamaliyev reported.
According to him, service support for running an existing business was provided to more than 200 thousand business entities, information support was provided to more than 500 thousand entrepreneurs in single-industry towns, small towns and district centers.
today it is the level of countries such as Finland, Australia and Latvia, "said the Minister of National Economy.
According to the National Statistical Committee of Kazakhstan, in 2019, the sown area of ​ ​ all crops amounted to 22.2 million hectares, including cereals - 15.4 million hectares, of which 11.4 million hectares - wheat.
the social orientation of the budget has been preserved. the social orientation of the budget has been preserved .
the meeting considered the implementation of protocol instructions of the 32nd plenary meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors and preparations for the 33rd meeting in 2020 on the topic "Development of non-primary exports."
A. Mamin noted that an important connecting factor in the sultan's relations with Ulan-Batyr is the Kazakh diaspora in Mongolia - more than 120 thousand Kazakhs live in 90 thousand Bayan-Ulga.
in general, due to an increase in the number of dairy farms of the industrial and family type, it is planned to increase milk production by 1 million tons for loading processing capacities.
The Prime Minister spoke about the efforts of the government and the nұr otan faction to saturate the domestic food market with domestic food products - the average supply of basic food products reached 80%, in some positions - 100%.
At the end of 2018, trade amounted to about $3 billion.
As a result of the camera control, violations of state procurement in the amount of 743 billion tenge were prevented, "A. smailov explained.
about 60% of annual food inflation is associated with some types of food, that is, with an increase in the price of meat by 12.8%, bakery products and cereals by 12.6%, the contribution of which amounted to 1 percentage point to inflation.
It is worth noting that at the XVIII Congress of the party "Nұr Otan" the first president of Kazakhstan was elected - the head of state. Nazarbayev instructed to additionally allocate 350 billion tenge for the development of road infrastructure (50 billion tenge annually for 7 years) and by 2025 to bring the road performance of the local network in good and satisfactory condition to 95%.
In general, to ensure quality economic growth in the period until 2025, a new wave of investments will be attracted, new production will be organized and 2.6 million new jobs will be created, "R. Dalenov summed up.
this is a significant volume for Kazakhstan.
work continues in Karaganda region to diversify industry, modernize systemically important enterprises, attract investment, "said A. Mamin, adding that 93% of all attracted investments are private, half of them are foreign.
the largest number of threshold values ​ ​ of socially significant food products was registered for 6 products in the cities of Kyzylorda, Shymkent and Turkestan, these are vegetables, flour, bread and beef.
At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the National Managing Holding Baiterek, chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, changes to the annual budget for 2020 and the development plan for 2019-2021 were approved, as well as other issues were considered.
2.3 billion tenge was additionally allocated for the implementation of piloting from the budget, including 1.7 billion tenge to increase the availability of advisory and diagnostic services with preventive examination and about 600 million tenge to expand medical rehabilitation.
in the capital's biotechnology center there are 14 laboratories for various purposes, where research is carried out in the field of genetic engineering, immunology, pillar cells, human tissue repair, environmental biotechnology, pharmacology.
The Prime Minister invited members of the regional commonwealth in the field of communications to take part in the upcoming 4th forum "Digital Agenda in the Era of Globalization 2.0," which will be held in Almaty in February 2020.
In turn, for power supply and gas supply of the city, the Prime Minister instructed to complete the construction of a 450 megawatt steam-gas plant due to private investments of the Askar mother's gas distribution station (Agrs-3), as well as the Ergian company.
The main thing in this process is primary health care, exactly one year ago, 194 countries of the world unanimously adopted the metropolitan declaration on primary health care.
Addressing the forum participants, Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev noted that 2019 has been declared the year of youth at the initiative of the first President of Kazakhstan - the head of state.
According to the results of the consideration over the past year, 72% of the proposals of the Accounts Committee to the government and state bodies were implemented and are under implementation, which contributed to the improvement of the budget implementation situation. of the recommendations given by the accounts committee to the government and state bodies , following the previous review , 72 % are implemented and are at the implementation stage , which contributed to the improvement in budget execution .
To prepare the medical insurance system for full implementation, from September 1, 2019, a pilot implementation of the medical insurance system is planned together with the akimat of Karaganda region.
the main ratings in higher education are qs world university rankings and times higher education.
To date, workers have commissioned 4 apartment buildings, completed overhaul of another 17 multi-storey buildings, in which only finishing work remains.
The Prime Minister noted that the head of state instructed to complete the development of an atlas of new professions by the end of March 2020, on the basis of which personnel will be trained in accordance with the needs of the labor market.
According to the Minister of Agriculture, the total grain storage capacity in the republic is 27 million tons, including 12.4 million tons at bakery enterprises, and 14.6 million tons from agricultural producers.
In 2018, the government adopted a comprehensive plan to combat malignancies for 2018-2022, which provides for improving the quality of medical services and updating equipment in oncological dispensaries.
Here, the Deputy Prime Minister talked with students studying the culture and traditions of the Kazakh people, and also presented the center with 50 books in Kazakh, Russian and English.
2 major events for the construction of a congress center and a citadel museum in the cultural block.
In addition, from September 1, 2019, the purchase of construction work will also be carried out only through preliminary qualification selection, in this case, financial stability is the criterion.
In the period from 2019 to 2024, the program plans to build 16 large hospitals at the national level in the amount of 838.5 billion tenge, of which 7 projects have already been launched.
In 2020, it is proposed to determine the budget deficit at the level of 2.1% to gin, in 2021 it will gradually decrease to 1.5% to gin, in 2022 - to 1% to gin.
In total, during the session, 5 meetings of the joint chamber, 41 plenary sessions and 26 plenary sessions of the Senate were held, at which 319 important issues were considered, 83 bills were adopted, 82 of which were signed by the head of state and entered into legal force.
as a result of these measures, the International Telecommunication Union increased Kazakhstan's position in the global cybersecurity index to 40th place in 2018, and the year before we were in 83rd place, "said A. Mamin.
The main parameters of the republican budget for 2019 will remain unchanged: revenues - 10.5 trillion tenge; expenses - 11.9 trillion tenge; deficit - 1.4 trillion tenge or 2.1% of gross domestic product.
It is planned to bring the share of small and medium-sized businesses in gross domestic product to at least 35%, manufacturing industry - at least 13.4%, "the Minister of National Economy said.
It should be noted that if at the time of the start of the project there were only 80 classes for training future entrepreneurs, now their number in districts, single-industry towns, regional centers and the cities of nur-sultan and Almaty is 252.
to improve the quality indicators of the road network and the "quality of road infrastructure," the ministry built, reconstructed and repaired 6 thousand km of roads of the republican network, 4.6 thousand km of roads of regional and regional significance.
A. Raimkulova worked in the structure of the Ministry of Culture and Sports for about 6 years, since October 2016 she served as vice minister.
Askar mom examined the "nur aktobe" microdistrict under construction, where more than 2 thousand apartments will be commissioned by the end of this year.
The Commission proposed to hold a regular meeting of the Kazakh-Russian Business Council within the framework of the Forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia with the participation of heads of state in 2020.
The implementation of the comprehensive plan measures will allow to increase by 1.6 times (in real terms) or increase to 300 billion tenge in nominal terms by 2025.
After graduation, unemployed and self-employed youth can apply for a grant of more than 500 thousand tenge, as well as receive a scholarship in the amount of 19 thousand tenge per month.
As part of the execution of the order of the head of state from 2020, centralization of public procurement will be introduced in the pilot mode, providing for the proper transfer of all public procurement to single organizers. as part of the execution of the order of the head of state , since 2020 in the pilot mode , centralization of public procurement has been introduced , which provides for the transfer of all public procurement to single organizers at the appropriate levels .
It is necessary to increase the annual volume of foreign direct investment from the current $24 billion to $34 billion by 2025, "the head of government said, noting the great potential of the manufacturing industry, the fuel and energy complex, transport and logistics, banking and tourism to attract investment.
The happy family program will still be available to citizens with incomes of up to 2 subsistence minimums (59.4 thousand tenge), "said the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan.
Since 2016, updated content has been introduced aimed at developing critical thinking and skills in schools to teach students how to use their knowledge.
As a result of the event, a joint action plan of 65 points was adopted in such areas as trade and investment, industry, transport, education, health, tourism, etc.
1) for consideration by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the chairmen of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Agency for Anti-Corruption (Anti-Corruption Service): draft provisions on agencies;
if everything is clear according to the four criteria, the question may arise why the salary for the third criterion should be more than 100 thousand tenge. if everything is clear by the four criteria , then the third criterion may raise the question of why wages should be higher than 100 thousand tenge .
buckwheat cereal (+ 62.9%), rice (+ 32.3%), flour (+ 27.8%).
According to the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan a. Aimagambetov, the bill "on the status of a teacher" consists of 19 articles, including measures of material and intangible stimulation of pedagogical work.
B. According to Sultanov, from the beginning of October to November 12, prices for socially significant food products increased by 1.1%.
At the government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the draft comprehensive plan for the development of the city of Shymkent until 2023, developed as part of specific tasks set on behalf of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev and during the trip of the head of state to the metropolis, was considered.
Within the framework of the forum, 18 documents were signed for a total of $1.5 billion, providing for the implementation of joint projects in the fields of infrastructure, industry, transport and logistics, health care, financial market development, exchange of experience in public-private partnerships, etc.
The main center for the development of urban tourism is the city of nur-sultan, which during the implementation of the plan of the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev over the past 20 years has become one of the largest regional economic, financial, transport and cultural centers.
The financial support of the president's instructions will be realized through the redistribution of part of the funds provided for the creation of a direct investment fund (300 billion tenge from 370 billion tenge).
it is expected to increase annual productivity growth due to the introduction of digitalization in sectors of the economy by 2-10%, growth in production at fields by 3%, reduction in production costs by 10-20%, increase in productivity by 25-50% due to the use of precision farming in the bank.
In 2019, the holding plans to allocate about 134 billion tenge for the development of livestock, while 60% of the financing will be provided from the own and raised funds of the holding's subsidiaries, "said E. Karashnkeev.
Protocol on amendments and additions to the Agreement between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science of Mongolia on cooperation in the field of education of 6 August 2008;
Taking into account the needs of the industry until 2025, it is planned to build 19 large hospitals at the republican level at 838.5 billion tenge with the creation of 16 thousand jobs.
The Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan also took part in the opening ceremony of school No. 87. Aimagambetov and akim of the city nur-sultan a. Kulginov.
Another measure of price stabilization will be the consolidation of a trade premium to socially significant food products in the amount of no more than 15%.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan b. A report was made by atamkuls, who noted that in the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol" for 2015-2019 over the past 5 years, about 5.8 trillion tenge has been allocated for the development of the transport industry.
Thanks to the implementation of the comprehensive plan, the gross regional product of the city of Shymkent will be brought to 2 trillion tenge in 2018 and to 3.5 trillion tenge by 2023, "said Askar Mamin.
Also, 7 regions have not yet approved regional rules, in connection with which they cannot use the "turnover scheme," the "simplified mechanism for the work of stabilization funds."
alternative energy is actively developing, since 2016, the capacity of hatred will increase 3.7 times and amount to 87 mW in 1041 volumes by the end of this year, and by 2024 it will amount to 3 thousand mW.
The meeting participants considered 15 issues on the agenda for the further development of integration processes, the expansion of trade and economic cooperation, the elimination of barriers in the domestic market of the EAEU.
the meeting approved the size and organizational structure of the states in the new version, the report of the internal audit service, the work plan of the board of directors for 2020, as well as other issues.
Together with Turkey, 34 major investment projects were implemented in the field of the production of pharmaceuticals, electronic optical devices, soft drinks and confectionery products worth $1.6 billion.
It should be noted that the products produced at the plants are 100% export-oriented and ultimately fall into the global global chain, covering all regions of Russia, the CIS countries, as well as the German daimler ag concern.
Also introduced 18 digital zones in the skills of obtaining electronic services, that is, there are classes for independent training of electronic services without an operator.
Currently, the length of toll roads has increased to 682 km (nur-sultan - schuchinsk (211 km), nur-sultan - temirtau (134 km), Almaty - kapchagai (42 km), diamonds - lead (295 km) and annual funds raised - more than 4 billion tenge, which will save the budget on the maintenance of these toll sections, - said B. atamkulov.
in its main segments there is an acceleration of dynamics, the largest growth is observed in trade - its volume for 8 months increased by 7.6% due to wholesale trade.
By decrees of the Head of State:
The meeting participants noted the successful holding of the "Uzbek year in Kazakhstan" in 2018, as well as the importance of qualitative implementation of the action plan for the Year of Kazakhstan in Uzbekistan in 2019.
In this regard, the Minister called on the countries to actively work together to make important decisions in 2020 in the city of Nur-Sultan, which will allow him to fully meet current challenges and needs.
At the 9th meeting of the Cooperation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of the work of 10 specialized subcommittees and two joint commissions in the field of trade, economic, energy, scientific, technical, financial, transport, cultural, humanitarian, water and environmental, geological and customs cooperation and security were considered.
Thus, the output of products by shock entities in January-June 2019 amounted to 12.7 trillion tenge and increased in comparable prices by 10.8% compared to the corresponding period of 2018.
The head of government invited representatives of Singapore to participate in the upcoming XII Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organization in June 2020 in Nur Sultan.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, 207 construction companies from 17 regions of the country and cities of national importance are involved in the restoration of the Arysk housing stock.
good results are expected for oilseeds: according to the northern soybean program, 14 thousand hectares of soybeans are sown in northern Kazakhstan.
development of youth entrepreneurship is carried out through the project "young entrepreneur," within the framework of which grant support for youth startup projects is provided up to 505 thousand tenge.
In Almaty region, the head of government was informed about the reconstruction project of the eastern part of the Rostock-Taldykorgan highway with a length of 314 km, the construction of the usharal-friendship highway with a length of 184 km.
In 2020, the corridor "Western Europe - Western China," a section of the Schuchin-Peter and Paul road, Omsk - Pavlodar and Nur-Sultan - the Kostanay border - the Russian Federation will be transferred to a paid basis.
By 2024, the country's poultry (49% imported), sausages (39%), cheeses and cheeses (46.5%), apples (31.5%) and sugar. In order to meet the needs (57.3%), it is planned to open industrial dairy farms, poultry farms, apple orchards, construction and modernization of sugar factories.
Over the 10 months of this year, more than 24 million public services were provided, as a result of large-scale work on training citizens in electronic services, compared to last year, the corporation's services decreased by 4.1 million.
In the work of the project office on the basis of the national chamber of entrepreneurs Atameken is more than 1500 tg of business projects worth more than 1 trillion tenge.
Reporting on the execution of the republican budget in 2018, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov noted that the budget policy of 2018 is aimed at strengthening the stability of public finances and the further development of the economy.
According to him, the concept of the transition of Kazakhstan to a green economy adopted in 2013 provides that by 2050 the share of hatred in electricity production will reach 50%.
At the stage of operation there are 547 real estate objects worth about 472 billion tenge, including local value in the amount of 541-288.4 billion tenge, republican value in the amount of 6-183.6 billion tenge.
From the beginning of 2020, micro and small businesses applying a special tax regime will be exempted from income tax for a period of 3 years.
In Kazakhstan, 89 major events are being implemented in the youth year, measures have been developed to solve housing problems, and young entrepreneurs have been supported.
The head of government was informed about the progress of the construction of a plant for the production of technical silicon with a capacity of 35 thousand tons per year in the industrial zone of the city of ekibastuz, and also presented a project for the construction of a plant for the production of large-sized irrigation equipment.
Over the next three years, more than 85 projects will be implemented, the implementation of which will improve the quality of life of more than half a million people.
This year, more than 19 thousand citizens will be provided with credit in the country, of which 16.7 thousand are villagers, 2.3 thousand are citizens, the minister said.
The Prime Minister instructed by the end of this year to develop proposals for the comprehensive development of the labor market until 2025, as well as to improve the current mechanisms of the state program "labor."
production of commodity ores increased by 48%, due to an increase in production volumes by 103.8%, the export of concentrate and shekemtases in Russia and China was increased.
The parties noted the importance of implementing the agreements reached in the framework of an official visit to Kazakhstan in 2018 between the first president of Kazakhstan - head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev and President Donald Trump.
On behalf of the Head of State, special tax regimes began to operate on January 1, 2020, small and small businesses are exempt from income tax and inspections for a period of 3 years, "said A. Mamin.
Currently, about 30 large investment projects worth more than $3 billion are being implemented in the agro-industrial complex with the participation of foreign investors.
70 projects involve the transfer to the management of school canteens, 26 projects for the transfer of colleges to trust management and the construction of 14 gyms, the supply and maintenance of computer equipment.
in his speech, A. Smailov told what measures the government is taking to ensure the growth of gin by 2025 by 5% and higher.
1) introduction of a state allowance for all large families with 4 or more minor children or with day students under the age of 23;
By decrees of the Head of State:
Currently, with the support of kazakh invest, 55 investment projects worth more than $228 billion are being developed and implemented in the field of the agro-industrial complex, mechanical engineering, mining and metallurgical industry, oil and gas chemistry, transport and logistics, renewable energy and the construction industry.
Revenues of the republican budget excluding transfers will amount to 8 trillion tenge in 2020, 8.6 trillion tenge in 2021, 9.4 trillion tenge in 2022, "said R. Dalenov.
For effective implementation of insurance, a pilot project will be launched in Karaganda region from September 1 of this year, to which all medical organizations of the region will be involved.
Since the beginning of 2019, Kazakh and foreign airlines have opened international flights to 7 destinations: "nur-sultan - Prague," nur-sultan - ulan-batyr, "" active - Baku, "" zhukovsky "- karaganda," "zhukovsky" - kokshetau, "" zhukovsky "- petropavlovsk," nur-sultan - ulan-batyr "and"
In a message from the first president of Kazakhstan - the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan dated October 5, 2018, it was instructed to ensure the transfer of 80% of public services by the end of 2019, and by the end of 2020, 90% - to electronic format.
According to the forecasts of the Governor's Office of the region, the adoption of these measures will provide stable additional income in the amount of 131 thousand families (more than 600 thousand people) monthly in the amount of 128 thousand tenge.
From 2016 to 2018, production in the industry grew by almost 40% - from 39.4 billion to 54.8 billion tenge, which indicates a growing potential for diversification for the entire economy, "the head of government said.
The Kalbatau-Maykapshagai highway is also being reconstructed, where 45 km of roads will be commissioned by the end of the year.
As of July 4, about 1,500 projects worth more than 1 trillion tenge are in the work of the project office, which is about 30% of all potential participants in the country.
The Prime Minister instructed the Samruk-kazyna Foundation in 2020 to increase the fleet of airlines operated by the state holding and ensure the expansion of the geography of their flights.
According to the lpi rating (development of trade and transport infrastructure) in 2018, Kazakhstan rose in the logistics efficiency index by 6 positions compared to 2016, taking 71st place among 160 countries of the world.
for three years through the housing construction savings bank 6 billion tenge will be financed to provide 50 thousand loans under the happy family program, "said Kassymbek.
all regions of our country participate in this process, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As a result of the implementation of the state program "Nұrly zhol" in the field of maritime transport, the capacity of the rehabilitation transport hub reached 27 million tons from 17 million tons.
This document envisages at the first stage the construction of a modern meat processing complex in Kazakhstan with a capacity of about 2 thousand heads per day.
The implementation of the project of the village - the cradle of the country began in accordance with the instructions of the head of state on February 2019, 27 at the XVIII Congress of the Nұr Otan Party.
as a result of systemic reforms, the total number of inspections of business entities has decreased by 4.3 times since 2010.
The comprehensive plan of socio-economic development of Semey city for 2020-2025 covers the implementation of 56 measures, for which 260.2 billion tenge is provided.
As part of the execution of the instructions of the Head of State, Kassym-generous Tokayev, work has begun on the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan for the Socio-Economic Development of the city of Zhanaozen until 2025.
In 2020, the oil deficit will decrease to 7% against gin (8.5% against gin in 2019), in 2022 it will gradually decrease to 5.1% against gin.
Recall that as a result of the explosion at a military training ground in the city of Arys, 85% of the total housing stock was injured.
Thus, to date, a broad legal framework has been established, with a special place in the strategic partnership agreement signed in 2008.
In the dynamics, there is an increase of 282 billion tenge in value added tax on domestic goods, 194 billion tenge in corporate income tax and 95 billion tenge in taxes from the wage fund.
if energy were produced by coal plants, then, according to forecasts, the annual emissions would be 2.3 million tons, pollutants - 190 thousand tons and ash slag - 500 thousand tons.
In 2020-2021, it is planned to allocate 30 billion tenge for these purposes to the regions, which will allow repairing about 700 houses and 126 houses will be repaired at the expense of working capital.
In 2020, we will unite all existing educational institutions in the industry and create a training center in the field of civil aviation that meets European standards, "said B. atamkulov.
By this time, the state supported 47 types of subsidies totaling 292 billion tenge, which were aimed mainly at supporting the profitability of agricultural production.
we know about this problem. we know about this problem .
So, the minimum price for ai-92 gasoline is 139 tenge in the West Kazakhstan region, for diesel fuel in the Turkestan region - 175 tenge.
Minister of Agriculture s. Omarov noted that in 2019 5.9 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Launch Business project.
Reaching the share of hatred in total electricity production to 10% by 2030 will be reduced by 15 million. Emissions of greenhouse gases, pollutants into the atmosphere - by 1 million tons and ash - by 3.2 million tons per year, "said M. Myrzagaliev.
spending on general education and health in each industry will be raised to 5% of gross domestic product by 2025.
these ratings are compiled by agencies such as standard & poor's, moody's i fitch.
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov reported on the results of the Ministry's work to improve tax and customs administration in the 10 months of 2019, and also familiarized with the upcoming tasks.
In the field of road transport, it is planned to build and reconstruct 133 bus stations/bus stations and passenger service points to comply with national standards.
At the opening ceremony of the forum, the ascar specialist noted that today tourism accounts for about 10% of global investments, 7% of investments, 10% of jobs and 5% of all tax revenues.
The document consists of 81 points, including in the following areas: an effective state with modern requirements - 11 points, ensuring the rights and security of citizens - 15 points, an intensively developed and inclusive economy - 27 points, a new stage of social modernization - 18 points, strong regions - a powerful country - 10 points.
The implementation of the comprehensive plan will create conditions for increasing the volume of investments to 1 trillion tenge over five years.
From October 2016 - Minister of Defense and Aerospace Industry of Kazakhstan, from December 26, 2018 to the present - Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
In general, this year the investment portfolio of the region consists of 44 investment projects worth 1.6 trillion tenge, of which 22 projects worth 67 billion tenge are planned to be implemented in 2019.
During the state visit of President Tokayev to Uzbekistan in April 2019, important agreements were reached that gave a significant impetus to Kazakh-Uzbek cooperation.
financial support is provided by redistributing expenses in the amount of 199.1 billion tenge and adjusting budget revenues for the first 9 months of this year in the amount of 94.9 billion tenge.
Today, in terms of flight safety in accordance with icao standards, Kazakhstan ranks second among the CIS countries with an indicator of 74%, the level of airport safety is 83%.
during the Government meeting, Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan e. Dossaev spoke about measures to fulfill the instructions of the head of state given at the expanded government meeting on July 15, 2019.
At the enlarged meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the first half of 2019 with the participation of President K. Tokayev, the growth rate of the Kazakh economy accelerated from 2.9% to 4.1%.
Askar mom also examined the construction of a new microdistrict, consisting of 50 two-room cottages for 100 families with a complete demolition of housing in the city of Arys.
expenditures of the republican budget, taking into account these parameters, are projected in 2020 - 12.7 trillion tenge, 2021 - 13.2 trillion tenge, 2022 - 13.6 trillion tenge.
the main driving force of the economy was the growth of construction by 8.8%, trade by 7.5%, the transport industry by 5.3%, the manufacturing sector, including engineering, by 16%, the automotive industry by 46.4%.
the chairmanship of friendship passed from Turkmenistan to Uzbekistan, the next meeting of the CIS is scheduled for May 2020 in Tashkent.
that is, you can apply from the age of 18, while the young man should have a permanent job, which provides for a full-time job, "said the chairman of the committee.
Currently, "e-government" is the most convenient tool for obtaining public services, which is used by more than 10 million citizens.
in addition, regions and cities of republican importance restore about 5 thousand individual residential and multi-storey buildings.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan informed Askar Mamin that in 2020 it is planned to implement an investment project to launch a new line for the production of marmalade and sugar cookies.
If we qualify the labor force in the region 506, then 35% of thousands of employed or 177 thousand self-employed, including 8.3 thousand people, are employed without results.
The volume of industrial production for 10 months of 2019 amounted to 103.5%, including: mining - 103.7%, manufacturing - 103.3%.
if earlier recipients of social assistance could hide their real incomes, then from 2020 there will be no such facts at all.
however, according to the committee on construction and housing and communal services, due to the fact that specialists still do not have access to 51 houses, inspections are impossible to start repairs.
By ratifying the Paris Agreement, Kazakhstan voluntarily contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 1990 to 2030 than in 15 per cent of the year.
The updated revenues to the republican budget for 2019, taking into account the preservation of the main indicators of the forecast of socio-economic development of the country for 2019 adjusted in March this year, will amount to 7081.3 billion tenge, expenses - 12028.1 billion tenge.
all social measures developed are important. all developed social measures are very important .
Until April 1, 2020, the ministries of agriculture, internal affairs, justice, all state bodies and akimats, and the Government for Citizens corporation were instructed to complete the activation of the database.
A report on the development of the oil and gas industry in January-May 2019 was made by the Minister of Energy K. Bozumbayev.
The first President of Kazakhstan - President A.D. On the instructions of Nazarbayev and the Head of State of Tokayev, more than 138 thousand yards visited to improve the quality of life of the population in the region.
at an informal ministerial meeting organized by the Chinese government, Director General R. Azevedo, as well as representatives of 30 WTO member countries.
Since the beginning of the year, the volume of industrial production in the North Kazakhstan region amounted to 193.8 billion tenge, which is 1.1% more than last year, the volume of gross agricultural output - 585 billion tenge (+ 2.6%).
It is expected that the norms of the law will allow teachers to double the surcharge for classroom leadership of 173 thousand teachers, and for checking notebooks - 165 thousand teachers. it is expected that the noted norms of the laws will double the additional payments for class teachers of 173 thousand teachers , and for checking notebooks - 165 thousand teachers .
Since January 2019, together with the border service, export control has been strengthened at 37 automobile checkpoints of the state border with Russia and Kyrgyzstan.
For example, at the end of 2018, the historical maximum trade turnover reached 5.1 billion euros, which is about 85% of Germany's foreign trade with all central Asian countries.
Within the framework of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps, a special constitutional law on ahko was adopted in 2015, its goals, objectives and principles of activity were determined.
Taking into account the growth of the fleet of aircraft in 2020, the increase in transportation capacities (maximum passenger flow-kilometer) in domestic areas will be 63%, in international areas - 14%.
In January-August 2019, the volume of investments in the fixed assets of Almaty region amounted to 305.3 billion tenge or 103.3% compared to the same period last year.
Currently, a major investment project is being implemented to modernize existing pharmaceutical industries in accordance with international standards in the amount of $108 million.
The head of government took part in the ceremony of building a capsule at the construction site of a multidisciplinary regional hospital with 530 beds in the Vostochny microdistrict in Petropavlovsk.
In general, according to the results of the half-year, there is a lag in the main indicators: investments in fixed assets decreased by 20%, housing commissioning - by 33%.
During the government meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Abdykalikova reported on measures to implement the tasks set by the head of state at the expanded government meeting on July 15, 2019.
The implementation of the project "Village - cradle of the country" will improve the quality of life of 7 million villagers over 7 years.
According to him, in order to achieve the target parameters, it is necessary to attract investments in fixed assets in the amount of 30 trillion tenge over 5 years.
however, nominal monetary income per capita in the region is 66.3 thousand tenge or reaches 68% of the average republican indicator (97 thousand tenge).
In order to develop ties between entrepreneurs of the two countries and implement joint investment projects, an agreement was reached on holding a Kazakh-parallel business forum in the spring of 2020.
Analysis of launched projects showed that for 1 tenge of support measures products worth 1.8 tenge are produced and serviced, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
From the point of view of the development of the education system and raising the status of a teacher, it is planned to increase the average salary of teachers by about 30% from next year.
Therefore this year the new state program of "Nrla zher" till 2025 within which about 650 thousand families or more than 2 million people will be provided with new housing will be adopted", - Askar Mamin told.
The measures taken will solve the problem of 100% provision of drinking water to the population in 2023, the Prime Minister said.
in this regard, it is necessary to ensure the export in these areas of an average annual volume of wheat and flour of at least 5 million tons.
Minister of National Economy of the Dalenov River reported on the main macroeconomic indicators and forecast of budget parameters, and First Deputy Minister of Finance B. Sholpankulov familiarized with the draft of the updated republican budget for 2019.
On November 6-7, 2019, the XVI Forum of Interregional Cooperation of Kazakhstan and Russia will be held in Omsk (RF) with the participation of heads of state on the topic "Current issues of the development of cross-border cooperation."
Since 2017, more than 3.3 trillion tenge has been invested in housing construction, of which 85% are funds from private investors.
Recall that as a result of the explosion in the city of Arys, 66 social facilities were damaged (52 educational facilities, 8 health facilities, 4 sports facilities and a walk of fame).
also visited the mining and processing complex for the extraction of 1 million tons of ore per year at the Voskhod deposit in the city of Khromtau.
In 2018, in accordance with the protocol of the Council for Management of the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, financing for 20 billion tenge or 100% of the plan was provided in the direction of completion of construction of problem facilities in the city of nur-Sultan.
I want to note the positive work of the akimats of East Kazakhstan, Turkestan, Zhambyl, Pavlodar regions on the main basic indicators of economic growth according to the results of 9 months. according to the results of 9 months on the main basic indicators of economic growth , i would like to note the positive work of the akimats of atyrau , east kazakhstan , turkistan , zhambyl , pavlodar regions .
domestic consumption of commercial gas amounted to 11.8 billion cubic meters. m, which is 3% more than in the same period of 2018.
is also the largest trading partner of the Republic of Kazakhstan - as of July 2019, bilateral turnover of goods and services reached about $20 billion.
microcredit is planned to be issued to the final borrower in rural settlements and small towns for a period of 2.5% per annum and no more than 7 years.
The production of non-ferrous ores in the mining sector increased by 18% due to mining enterprises commissioned in 2018.
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance a. smailov noted that work in this direction will be intensified to ensure the achievement of target indicators to achieve the level of 30% of GDP.
this is evidenced by 43% of gross agricultural output and 60% of meat and milk in personal subsidiary farms.
To date, payments for the mams system are made through 25 second-level banks, including through 7 Internet banking portals.
He also noted that the issue of introducing a toll system for 11 thousand km of national roads is currently being considered.
Since the beginning of the year, about 200 thousand employers have confirmed an increase in wages of more than 1.1 million workers, which is an average of 31%.
A tourist complex with a water park, sports grounds and a congress hall with a number 600 for 2000 seats is planned to be commissioned in July 2020.
first.
Within the framework of the National Plan, 100 concrete steps are being taken to attract strategic investors and transnational companies to the manufacturing sector.
From July 1, 2019, a transitional currency session was introduced on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange in order to extend the trading day and increase the availability of trading for participants.
As A. Mamin noted, this mechanism should be extended to all regions and taken into account from 2020 with the full launch of medical insurance.
During the Government meeting, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance A. Smailov reported on measures to implement the tasks set by the head of state at the expanded government meeting on July 15, 2019.
The International Monetary Fund raised the forecast of growth of the economy of Kazakhstan from 3.2% in 2019 to 3.8%, from 3.2% in 2020 to 3.9%.
at a meeting of the Government chaired by Prime Minister A. Mamin on the draft plan of legislative work of the government for 2020, Vice Minister of Justice N. Pan made a report.
It should be noted that mobile technologies are the easiest way to get public services (64% of Kazakhstanis use a smartphone).
The geography of flights is expanding - Kazakhstan carries out flights to 99 international destinations with 24 foreign countries, including in 2019 routes from the Nur Sultan to Tokyo, Prague, Ulan Batyr were opened.
Minister of Agriculture s. Omarov reported on the development of agriculture in January-October 2019 at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister a.
During the Government meeting chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the implementation of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" and new approaches to support business until 2025 were considered.
It is planned to commission 133 multi-storey or 702.9 thousand square meters. meters of housing and bring the average life expectancy to 75 years.
In 2017, since the EXPO was held in the capital, Kazakhstan has achieved significant success in introducing comprehensive green measures into the economy.
Since 2010, solar and water power stations of 2 MW each have been built and commissioned, 947 km of water supply networks and 67 km of sewage networks have been reconstructed.
During the visit, the Deputy Prime Minister took part in the 43rd session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, which will be held in Baku from June 30 to July 10.
This project is aimed at training the basics of entrepreneurship and was launched in 2017 as part of the implementation of the program of productive employment and the development of mass entrepreneurship.
Leasing agreements were concluded for 5,531 units of agricultural equipment and equipment in the amount of 90 billion tenge, which is 57% more than in the same period last year.
the implementation of the project will allow in 2020-2023 to introduce a payment system for 11 thousand kilometers of roads of national importance.
in construction - 12.7%, trade - 7.5%, transport industry - 5.6%, in the manufacturing sector, including in engineering - 18.2%, in light industry - 19%, in the production of non-ferrous metals - 7.5%, oil refining - 7.2%, metal ore production - 16.1%, in communication services - 4.5%.
At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, measures to fulfill the instructions and tasks given by the president at the expanded meeting on July 15, 2019 were considered.
There are 16 specialized centers and 86 sectors in the republic, over 10 months more than 2 million services were provided, about 32% of driver's license services (111 thousand) were received in online format. there are 16 specialized centers and 86 sectors operating in the country , over 2 million services have been provided in 10 months , including about 32 % ( 111 thousand ) of driver 's licenses received in online format .
also extended the term for the appointment of unconditional cash assistance from 3 to 6 months, due to cash assistance - from 6 to 12 months.
The modern hotel complex on the coast of the Caspian Sea is designed for 800 seats with all the infrastructure necessary for tourists.
From 2020 to September 1, all the necessary regulatory legal acts will be adopted to ensure the timely implementation of the mam system.
If we compare the results by year, then in 2018 production amounted to 26.5 trillion tenge, which is 70% higher than in 2015
The pace of housing construction should not decline with high demand for housing in the capital, "said Askar Mamin, adding that according to the results of 6 months, the rate of construction decreased by 20%.
In order to increase the profitability of savings by the end of 2019, it is planned to revise approaches to investing pension assets.
The Prime Minister noted that Kazakhstan intends to increase the volume of irrigated land from 1.4 million hectares to 2 million hectares by 2022, and to 3 million hectares by 2030.
Protocol Amending the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Mongolia on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters of 22 October 1993;
For young people working in the cities of nur-sultan, Almaty, Shymkent, within three years, the issue of allocating 9 thousand rental apartments is being decided.
Within 15 calendar days after the decision of akimats to provide housing, a lease agreement is concluded.
On December 7, Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev received citizens at the capital's support center for the Family Institute.
Renewable energy sources with a capacity of 147.6 megawatts are expected to operate in the region by 2021.
On July 10, 2019, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan gulshara abdykalikova met with participants in the republican educational youth camp "grains-2019."
In two months, the region increased coverage of the population with rehabilitation care (by 42.2%) and expensive research (ct and MRI) through health insurance (by 192%).
He also noted that for 5 years this person must work and confirm that he is working for a year.
for this, it is envisaged to transfer corporate income tax from small and medium-sized businesses to local budgets from 2020, "said the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Ministries of finance, investment and infrastructure development, energy, ecology, education and science, internal affairs should ensure by the end of the year 100% of the implementation of the plan, "said A. Mamin.
the implementation of these projects will create about 2 thousand jobs and increase tax revenues by 6.6 billion tenge, "said Kassymbek.
in Kazakhstan, wholesale prices for jet fuel will amount to 578 USD/ton up to 621 USD/ton, while prices for imported jet fuel will amount to 672 USD/ton per ton 700 USD/ton.
Since 1994, adb has allocated more than $5.1 billion of borrowed funds for the implementation of state projects for the development of financial, infrastructure, energy, utility services and other industries in Kazakhstan.
of which 44% or 2 trillion 540 billion tenge - public funds, the remaining 56% or 3 trillion 274 billion tenge were financed with the participation of the private sector, including the public-private partnership mechanism.
According to this project, 40 km will be opened this year, according to the results of 2020, it is planned to open traffic along the entire length of the road.
26 projects in the field of energy saving and heat supply in the regions in the field of housing and communal services are under implementation and development.
More than 5 thousand jobs are expected to be created from the implementation of these projects and income payments in the amount of 3.5 billion tenge are expected to increase, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
This year, thanks to the modernization of Kazakhstan refineries, the volume of aviation fuel production increased by 694 thousand tons or 1.8 times compared to 2018 production.
According to Alikhan Smailov, 146 billion tenge will be allocated to support entrepreneurship in the next three years as part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2025."
The head of government also launched the construction of a multifunctional tourist complex "caravanserai" worth about 39 billion tenge, which will be built by the Turkish company "sembol construction."
During the government meeting, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Zh. Kassymbek reported on measures to implement the tasks set by the head of state at the expanded government meeting on July 15, 2019.
for example, the availability of computed tomography services increased by 78%, the availability of medical rehabilitation services increased by 73%, and the availability of counselling and diagnostic services increased by 42%.
The head of government shared with the forum participants plans to bring the financing of space communication systems of Kazakhstan to $300 million, including the attraction of private capital.
The priority of regional policy within the framework of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 and the Strategic Development Plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025 is to ensure managed urbanization. within the framework of the strategy of kazakhstan-2050 and the strategic plan for the development of the republic of kazakhstan until 2025 , the priority of regional policy is to ensure managed urbanization .
On the instructions of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the head of state, an amnesty is being held on January 1 to write off fines and penalties.
The Ministry of Energy approved a schedule for the supply of "social" fuel oil in the amount of 100 thousand tons at a price of 277 thousand tenge, taking into account value added tax, and sent it to the regions.
the commissioning of the gas pipeline provides natural gas to the cities of Nur Sultan, Karaganda, temirtau and zhezkazgan and 171 settlements.
in general, from January 1, 2020, coverage of compulsory social health insurance is projected at the level of 94.5% of the population.
To do this, it is necessary to develop and accept all the necessary documents in a timely manner and have time to conduct all budget procedures for the implementation of the updated republican budget for 2019.
Today, 563 training centers operate on the basis of Kazakhstani enterprises (50 training centers in the capital), in the future it is planned to increase their number to 1000.
On Wednesday, October 30, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev held a retreat on the development of physical culture and sports.
single-source procurement decreased by about 1.5 times and competitive procurement increased by 4 times. purchases from a single source were almost 1.5 times reduced and the volume of competitive purchases was increased by 4 times .
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, this allowed to create more than 32 thousand new jobs and launch road construction facilities in each region of the country.
according to preliminary calculations, 900 billion tenge is required, while it is proposed to allocate 70% or 630 billion tenge from the republican budget, and the remaining 30% or 270 billion tenge from the local budget.
today, 31 or about 4% of government services and services are available through the e-gov mobile application, "said A. Mamin.
stable growth was also shown by manufacturing enterprises, which provide about 12% of the republican volume of processing.
for example, when targeting social assistance, it was found that more than 73,000 families concealed their income and illegally assigned targeted social assistance.
First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance a. Smailov introduced a bill to clarify the republican budget for 2019.
To ensure labor mobility of working young people in the cities of nur-sultan, Almaty, Shymkent in 2019-2021, the construction of 1 thousand rental apartments per year is planned.
Over the past 27 years, the EBRD's investment in Kazakhstan has amounted to more than 260 projects - more than $9 billion, of which 43 agreements were reached in 2018 and 2019.
The city's contribution to the country's life exceeds 10%, investments in the capital's fixed capital increased 26 times and exceeded 9 trillion tenge.
The working visit of members of the Government began with a visit to secondary school No. 65, where a meeting was held with a community of teachers, veterans and education workers.
Since 1994, Adb has allocated more than $5.1 billion in loans for the implementation of state projects for the development of finance, infrastructure, energy, the utility sector and other industries in Kazakhstan.
4 . the repair of social facilities is supposed to be carried out with the help of national companies, as well as large industrial enterprises and Bizen associations will be involved in construction work.
Within the framework of the forum, promising projects in the investment and trade and economic spheres were considered, an agreement was reached with German companies on the implementation of investment projects totaling about $700 million.
395 thousand tons of fuel and lubricants were allocated for timely harvesting (average price for agricultural producers 179 tenge/liter).
There was also a decrease in indicators compared to August in 2 indicators in Almaty, Kostanay and North Kazakhstan regions, in 1 indicator in West Kazakhstan region.
As part of the working trip, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening ceremony of the worldskills kazan 2019 championship together with the head of the Russian government Dmitry Medvedev.
Within 3 years, we will build infrastructure, the services of which will be provided for 14 years, "explained the chairman of the board of Kazakhtelecom JSC.
Also, at a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report of the Accounts Committee for monitoring the implementation of the republican budget for 2018 was published.
The Movement of French Enterprises (medef) is the largest organization of business communities in the country, uniting 800 thousand companies in various fields of activity.
in Kostanay region, the largest share of local content is in the purchase of furniture and food - 40%, light industry - 21%.
Thus, 500 thousand tenge will be allocated to the young specialists of the plant, and in the case of a child, a lump sum allowance of 250 thousand tenge for each child.
for education in universities, an additional 5,000 targeted grants are allocated for large families and children from families receiving targeted social assistance.
According to international experts, from 2020 freelancers will make up a significant part of the entire workforce in the world. " Dalenes.
The Prime Minister noted that Kazakhstan held international auctions on the sale of renewable energy projects with an installed capacity of about 3 thousand. MW, in which 12 companies from 138 countries took part.
strengthening the role of small and medium-sized businesses, whose share will increase to 35%, increasing the flexibility of the labor market.
Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan a. Aimagambetov, in turn, noted that to date, 558 projects are being implemented in the field of education.
Minister of National Economy R. Dalenov noted that the positive pace for the seven months of 2019 remained, the growth was 4.2%.
Given the high efficiency of the state program, the timing of its implementation will be extended until 2025, "said A. Mamin.
for this purpose, the obligation of domestic trade entities to provide at least 30% of the shelf space or trading platform for domestic food products is provided.
akimat and the Ministry of Health plan to solve this problem by building a new medical complex with 600 seats.
for this purpose, it is planned to remove 3 product items from the national regime for a period of 2 years: for vehicles, transformers, cable products, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
Today in the housing stock of the republic there are more than 78 thousand apartment buildings, including 18 thousand houses, it is necessary to carry out major repairs.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the modech of the modular house-building plant under construction in the city of Askar, Mother Nur-Sultan on the territory of Industrial Park No. 1 "Capital is a New City."
Also today, on the basis of actuarial reports, an assessment of financial stability until 2050 is carried out according to various scenarios.
Under the Karaganda-temirtau and Karaganda Bypass projects, work was completed before the end of the year and 61 km of roads will be commissioned.
today there is a positive dynamics in coal exports, growth compared to 2018 amounted to 101.9% or 15.8 million tons.
1.3 thousand people were employed, 51 thousand people opened their own business, 248 thousand people improved their qualifications, 53 thousand young citizens master the first professions, "said A. Mamin.
It is worth noting that since December 2018, the decrease in wholesale prices for jet fuel in Kazakhstan amounted to 65 USD per ton.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan visited the construction site of the new Palace of Children and Youth "Palace of the Future," where in 2020 it is planned to hold the main events of the XVII forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
In 2020, the fleet of aircraft of the fund's companies will increase to 47 units, including an increase in the fleet of aircraft by 10 units.
The transport industry of the country, which now employs more than 400 thousand people, is one of the drivers of the dynamic development of the economy.
in construction - 13.5%, trade - 7.6%, transport industry - 5.5%, manufacturing industry, including mechanical engineering - 18.2%, light industry - 19%, metal ore production - 16.1%, oil refining - 7.2%, communications activity - 4%.
according to operational data, from wheat supplied to elevators, about 80% - food, 20% - feed and wheat for technical purposes.
According to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the volume of gross agricultural products in January-May 2019 increased by 3.7%.
Since the beginning of the year, the maximum increase in prices for socially significant food products has been observed in other regions (13.5%), Pavlodar (12%), Nur-Sultan (11.8%), Zhambyl and Aktobe regions (11.4%).
As a result, 930 cases of violations of labor and migration laws were identified and eliminated, and the salaries of 474 local and foreign workers were identified.
In Zhuravlevka 1 LLP for the cultivation and production of crops, the head of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was informed about preparations for the harvesting of 74 thousand hectares.
About 133 bus stations/stations and passenger service points are planned to be built and upgraded in order to comply with the national road transport standard.
The meeting discussed the implementation of the sustainable development agenda for 2030 with 17 global sustainable development goals approved in Kazakhstan in 2015.
113 investment projects totaling 4.4 trillion tenge are being worked out and implemented in the bank sector.
To prepare for the upcoming heating season, 428 boiler houses out of 459 boiler houses were repaired in the district heating zone, which is 93% of the annual plan.
thus, they provide a bank guarantee for performance of 10% of the contract value, which is returned after the expiration of the warranty period.
At a meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the results of the socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan in January-July 2019 and the execution of the republican budget were considered, as well as issues of preparation for the start of the new school year were discussed.
at the Baikonur cosmodrome, a project is being developed to modernize the Gagarinsky launch site No. 1, "said A. Mamin.
The company can process up to 1 million tons of high-molecular oil and produce up to 520 thousand tons of bitumen of various grades per year.
Recall that the city of arys was divided into 17 sectors and assigned to each region and city of republican significance.
According to A. Raimkulova, there are 38 thousand sports facilities in the country, of which 27 thousand are educational facilities, 11 thousand are sports facilities.
the bridge and the pedestrian crossing will be built and put into operation before the end of 2020, "said A. Mamin.
freight by inland waterways increased by 86%, from 750 thousand tons to 1.4 million tons.
About 100 thousand students of the last courses of colleges and universities will study the basics of business under the program "young entrepreneur."
according to our forecast, the number of individual payers is about 1 million people, including 770 thousand people - self-employed citizens, "said E. birtanov.
The digital state program of Kazakhstan provides for the creation and implementation by 2021 of an information system of national spatial data infrastructure, a single state real estate cadastre.
we are tasked with increasing labor productivity in the agro-industrial complex by 2.5 times by 2022, "said A. Mamin.
Since 2010, as a result of its implementation, more than 342 thousand jobs have been saved and more than 94 thousand new jobs have been created.
By 2025, it is planned to commission 233 apartment buildings, 2 schools, a sports complex with an area of ​ ​ 1 million square meters.
On October 6, in the famous arena of New York, the world famous Karaganda Gennady Golovkin will hold a duel with Ukrainian Sergey Derevyanchenko.
Deputy Prime Minister noted that a special research institute, an oncological center and 16 oncological dispensaries in the regions of the country will deal with these issues in Kazakhstan.
aa. birtanov noted that the introduction of the mams system will increase the availability of some medical services by 7 times.
In order to increase the profitability of pension savings, the methods of investing pension assets will be revised until the end of 2019.
This season, Food Contract Corporation plans to purchase up to 1 million tons of grain.
in the direction of a dynamically developed and inclusive economy, 27 measures will be implemented to diversify the economy, develop business and the banking sector, tax and budget legislation.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, 213 companies are involved in the restoration of the housing stock of the city of arys.
customs payments also increased: from the eurozone on value added tax by 88 billion tenge and from third countries by 73 billion tenge.
The document provides for the construction in Kazakhstan in 2022 of a plant for the production of valley irrigation systems with a capacity of 1 thousand fornt and circular irrigation machines per year.
the solution of this problem will ensure the influx of foreign direct investment up to $34 billion, which is the main condition for ensuring the growth of the national economy by 5% by 2024.
By 2025, in good and satisfactory conditions, the share of republican roads will increase to 100%, local value - up to 95%.
In January-July 2019, there is a positive dynamics in construction (by 11.5%), trade (by 7.5%), the transport industry (by 5.4%), agriculture (by 3.5%), industry (by 2.7%) and communications services (by 2.6%).
The Head of Government noted the good results of akimats of Aktobe, Akmola, East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar and North Kazakhstan regions, where according to the results of 10 months of this year the main economic indicators are growing.
Speaking about the fact that today the readiness of schools for the new school year is 85%, the head of government noted the need to prepare all educational facilities by September 1 by 100%.
The Head of Government instructed to ensure timely implementation of all points of the national action plan for the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan of September 2, 2019.
In addition, the number of employees in SMEs increased by 300 thousand people and amounted to 3.3 million people, "said the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Over three and a half years, more than 430 thousand jobs were created, 2.7 thousand kilometers of roads were built.
According to estimates, about 8 thousand people began their business and 7 thousand people sent targeted social assistance for the development of personal economy.
according to him, a feature of the project is that these types of products are 70% export-oriented and are not produced on the territory of the EAEU countries.
According to the startup business project, over 88 thousand people have been trained in the basics of doing business for 3 years.
the export rate of productive eggs is growing, therefore, according to the results of last year, 680 million eggs were exported. lobster.
In 2007, when the rating was published, it was aimed primarily at simplifying trade and removing barriers at the border.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, today 407 private houses and 3 multi-storey buildings have been completely restored.
2 times less amendments were made to the budget, the inefficient use of budget funds decreased by almost 4 times, the positive dynamics strengthened, "he said. godunova.
According to the data presented by the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, only 368 or 54% of thousands of people out of 177 thousand rural residents studied have stable income.
According to the results of 10 months, according to the financing plan, 59.3 billion tenge was transferred to the regions, 56.3 billion tenge or 96.1% was spent.
the budget deficit was actually significantly lower than the plan of the reporting period: for the state budget - 995 billion tenge, for the republican budget - 1 trillion 127 billion tenge. the budget deficit was actually much lower than the planned for the reporting period : 995 billion tenge for the state budget and 1 trillion 127 billion tenge for the republican budget .
Recently, it became known that a flight worth 999 tenge will fly from the city of nur-sultan to Pavlodar.
According to official statistics, from January to July 2019, the share of shock in the republic amounted to 28.5%.
According to the results of 2018, the volume of beef exports amounted to 19.9 thousand tons, lamb - 3 thousand tons, pork - 400 tons.
M. Zhayymbetov noted that 50 billion tenge will be allocated through residential construction bank within three years.
Another 1.5 thousand builders at the expense of white funds "samruk-kazyna" restore 62 social facilities (53 educational facilities, 6 health facilities and 3 sports facilities).
According to the press service of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, 56 social facilities were commissioned, including 50 educational facilities, 4 health facilities and 2 sports facilities.
On Thursday, October 24, a government working group headed by Deputy Prime Minister Berdybek Saparbayev arrived in Shymkent.
During the year, it is planned to implement 7 national projects in the fields of health, social services, culture, etc.
For 9 months of this year, trade between Kazakhstan and France grew by more than 6% and amounted to $3.4 billion, exceeding the figures of other countries of the European Union.
Thus, as a result of the work done by the end of 2022, 97% of the population of the republic will be covered by broadband Internet.
Tobzh will be commissioned by the end of 2021, which will allow to supply information with a capacity of at least 4-6 terabits/s.
Ministries of Defence, National Economy, Foreign Affairs, Culture and Sports, Ecology, Geology and Natural Resources, Labour and Social Protection of the Population. 2
The results of the socio-economic development of the country and the implementation of the republican budget for January-May 2019, chaired by the Prime Minister, were reported by the Ministers of National Economy, Finance, Industry and Infrastructure Development, Energy, Agriculture.
American irrigation technologies will increase crop productivity and reduce agricultural water consumption by 50%.
Since January 2019, the republican budget provides for the placement of state orders in all existing private schools in the country, "said the Minister of Education and Science.
The introduction of mams will reduce current "pocket" costs in 2020 by 30%, and by 2025 - by almost 2 times.
more than $628 million was allocated for the implementation of private sector projects to modernize the transport and communal sectors, livestock, etc.
The Minister of Agriculture Saparkhan Lobster reported on the development of the agro-industrial complex in January-May 2019 at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
39.6 million tons of coal were shipped to energy-producing enterprises, which is 1.4% less than in the same period of 2018.
7.1 million tons of coal were shipped to utilities and the population, which is 92.8% compared to the period of 2018.
Due to the decrease in grain production in the current 2019/20 marketing year, export potential may decrease by about 3 million tons compared to last year.
The volume of mutual trade between Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation in 2018 amounted to $18.5 billion, which is 13.1% higher than in 2017 ($16.4 billion).
33.5 million square meters of housing were built, which made it possible to provide housing for about 300 thousand families.
For 9 months, the largest indicators of local content were achieved in Kyzylorda region in the field of light industry (46%), Pavlodar region of furniture (59%), food and construction industries (54%).
From January 2020, a three-year ban on inspections of small and medium-sized businesses will come into force.
in addition, the local labor market will be influenced by new qualitative growth and a transition to a higher level at the level of 5% per year, "the minister said.
Chairman of the national bank e. Dossaev noted that according to the results of 8 months, the situation in the financial market remained in stable condition.
The MSW capacity will be 25 million tons of processed ores per year, from 2021 it is planned to double this figure.
Of the 27 thousand citizens who defended their projects, 8.1 thousand people received grants and loans, "he said. nurymbets.
The World Bank raised positions of Kazakhstan in rating on ease of business of "doing business" from 28 to 25 on 3 points.
As a result, the "village - cradle of the country" program plans to cover 700 thousand people, and by 2025 - 83% of the rural population or 6.5 million people.
our task is to bring this indicator to 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2050, which corresponds to the level of developed countries.
Kazakhstan in the global competitiveness index in 2019 rose from 30th to 25th place, having overtaken Georgia (37), Russia (62), Ukraine (69) and other countries by the factor of "labor market efficiency."
On September 12, 2019, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan will open the exhibition "The Great Steppe: History and Culture" at the Museum of Anatolian Civilizations in the city of Ankara of the Republic of Turkey.
Today, all forces are used to restore the Arysian city, 250 construction companies, special equipment and more than 10 thousand workers work. today , all forces are mobilized to restore arys : 250 construction companies are working , the necessary special equipment and more than 10 thousand workers are involved .
Recently, it became known that a flight worth 999 tenge will fly from the city of nur-sultan to Pavlodar. just recently it became known that a flight is being launched from nur sultan to pavlodar , where the ticket price starts from 999 tenge .
In the first half of 2019, trade between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan amounted to $68 million, which is 2.2 times higher than the same period last year.
when applying these typical projects, the cost of developing LG is reduced by an average of 55%, the development period - by 5-6 months.
As part of preferential lending to low-income families, 50 billion tenge was allocated to the housing construction savings bank at 2% per annum.
The Asian Development Bank also increased the expected results on the growth of the economy of Kazakhstan in 2019 from 3.5% to 3.7%.
The head of government noted that since the beginning of the year, marginal prices for socially significant food products in all regions have increased by more than 15%.
we are faced with the task of bringing this figure to 90% by the end of next year, "said A. Mamin.
For 6 months of this year, the European Union invested more than $5.4 billion in the economy of Kazakhstan - this is half of the total inflow of foreign direct investment in the first half of the year.
the main increase in VAT - 421 billion tenge, corporate income tax - 184 billion tenge and taxes on international trade and foreign operations - 125 billion tenge. the main growth was due to vat - 421 billion tenge , cit - 184 billion tenge , taxes on international trade and foreign operations - 125 billion tenge .
17 regions and cities of republican significance will take part in a large-scale event to restore the city.
In Tims, we became the best in academic education in mathematics and natural disciplines and were among the 10 leading countries in the world, "said the Minister of Education and Science.
By 2024, the number of government employees and employees of national companies will decrease by 25%, "said A. smailov.
This year, 30 million tenge was allocated, which are aimed at solving the priority infrastructure issues of 700 villages, where about 53 thousand people live.
the bill amends and supplements 3 codes and 15 laws.
This was achieved thanks to our policy over the past 10 years, "said A. Sospanova.
In 2014, with the adoption of the Law "On Permits and Notifications," a final list of 481 permits and 227 licensed activities was systematized and approved.
Today 32 billion tenge is additionally allocated for microcredit and grants, which will cover about 30 thousand citizens. today , an additional 32 billion tenge is allocated for microcredits and grants , which will allow covering about 30 thousand citizens .
food prices rose by 9 per cent year-on-year and continue to contribute most to inflation. food prices increased by 9 % year on year and continue to make the largest contribution to inflation .
Since the beginning of 2019, the minimum wage has been increased 1.5 times - from 28 thousand to 42.5 thousand tenge.
Recall that the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Asar Mom on July 20, 2019 began the environmental action "Together - Clean Kazakhstan" on the reservoir.
the warranty period of the contractor's responsibility for the work performed, depending on the type of road repair work and the source of financing, is from 2 to 5 years.
B. According to Saparbayev, two concepts are being developed: one is the "state that listens to the voice of the people" and the development of civil society until 2025.
In turn, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance Alikhan Smailov noted that according to the results of 9 months, state budget revenues grew by 15%, republican - by 19% and local budgets - by 7%.
The head of the Azerbaijani government was invited to the eighth global summit on tourism in the city of nur-sultan in October 2019.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, the commissioning of a terminal with a capacity of 400 passengers per hour will increase passenger traffic by 10 times.
the economy of Kazakhstan shows a steady growth trend - in October-January 2019, wool growth amounted to 4.4% compared to the same period last year.
2.9 million tons came from gross harvest to elevators, of which 1.8 million tons of wheat, 700 thousand tons of barley.
a map of support for gifted children, a concept of the state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030, protecting the interests of children.
1 . Rename the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption to the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs.
2) regional rules approved by local executive bodies, reflecting the detailed procedure taking into account the characteristics of each region.
By October 1, 2019, the process of integrating information systems, as well as automating the selection of medical service providers, will be completed.
Today, growth centers have been identified: 4 agglomerations, 14 large urbanized zones, 18 remote single-industry towns and border small cities.
Within three days, we plan to completely rent 10 houses, "said the deputy head of the construction department of the Turkestan region erbol akhmetov.
In order to provide road users with high-quality roadside services, 1822 thousand active 1 facilities are brought into compliance with national standards.
for us, this is a good sign that in Kazakhstan permanent investors with 20 years of experience in the oil and gas industry come to renewable energy sources.
In the field of health care for 3 years, the local executive bodies concluded 127 contracts totaling 58.9 billion tenge.
2 million tenge is an amount sufficient for the purchase of the first individual housing and under the program "7-20-25," - explained M. Kozhakhmet.
The plan was exceeded by 120 billion tenge and amounted to 1.2 trillion tenge or 113.4%.
tourism is becoming one of the most important factors in our diversification - the share of mined gins in this area has almost doubled - to 6% in 2018, "the Prime Minister said.
currently, the volume of oil production in Kashagan shows a record level - about 400 thousand barrels per day.
The concept of the development of the armed forces and military formations will be adopted in a new edition by the end of 2020, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
On July 11, 2019, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan opened the exhibition "The Great Steppe: History and Culture" at the National Archaeological Museum of the Republic of North Macedonia.
In 1990 he graduated from the Kazakh State University named after Kirov (Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi) with a degree in philosopher.
the tourism sector of Kazakhstan has grown by an average of 7% over the past 10 years, which is about 3% higher than the growth rate in the rest of the economy. the tourism sector of kazakhstan over the past 10 years has grown on average by 7 % , which is about 3 % higher than the growth rate in the rest of the economy .
In 2019 alone, more than 5 thousand citizens opened their business and created 8.5 thousand jobs, "said A. Mamin.
More than 4 thousand new jobs will be created, the volume of agricultural products will increase by 19% and will amount to 43 billion tenge.
In the road industry, work is currently being completed to extend the state program "Nұrly zhol" until 2025.
The volume of production of the main types of petroleum products exceeded 5 million tons, which is 14% higher than the same period last year.
During the audit, violations in the amount of 114 billion tenge were corrected, of which 7 billion tenge was restored, 2 billion tenge was repaid and 105 billion tenge was reflected in the calculations.
East Kazakhstan and Kyzylorda regions in 4 indicators, Karaganda, West Kazakhstan and Akmola regions in 3 indicators showed high growth, "summed up r. dalen.
In the framework of reducing unemployment and raising the standard of living of the rural population, about 100 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund.
According to K. Sadvakasov, the annual increase in inbound tourism in Kazakhstan is observed at the average level of 10%.
Kazakh carriers plan to open flights to such large cities as Shanghai (2020), Singapore (2020), New York (2021).
The first president of the country noted that in 2018, on his behalf, a comprehensive plan for the fight against cancer until 2022 was approved.
In 2019, the area of ​ ​ crops will be 22.2 million hectares (206 thousand hectares or 0.9% more than in 2018).
This will allow to create about 16 thousand jobs and increase tax revenues by 1.1 trillion tenge by 2025.
On July 15, the bank began accepting applications from waiting lists on a preliminary assessment of solvency.
if we get an expanded list that provides for transport, culture, accommodation, then we say that about 300 thousand people work.
The pilot project will require about 46.4 billion tenge with a development period by the end of 2020.
As of July 12, 2019, in the city of arys, Turkestan region, repairs were completed in 754 houses (the day before - 674 houses).
In less than a year of the exchange's existence, the amount of raised share capital exceeded $70 million.
rice prices in Russia increased by 14%, that is, in our currency from 368.5 tenge/kg to 420.2 tenge.
As a result, 9.6% of families assigned targeted social assistance in the republic are residents of the Zhambyl region (39 thousand families).
4.8 million tons of coal were shipped to industrial enterprises, which is 15.2% less than in the same period of 2018.
currently, scat, air astana, turkish airlines, bek air, lufthansa, s7, asia freight are included in the system.
The cost of the facility is about 100 billion tenge, about 1700 new jobs will be created for medical personnel, including 350 doctors.
The volume of investments taking into account investments in the modernization and reconstruction of the oil refinery reached 588 billion tenge.
Thus, within 5 years, the state remuneration, excluding interest on the deposit, will collect about 1.8 million tenge.
first - repayment of debt on consumer loans without collateral for socially vulnerable segments of the population in the amount of up to 300 thousand tenge.
Deputies of the parliament unanimously decided to extend the work of the fourth session of the VI convocation until July 2019, 5.
due to the expansion of the whitewash port and the construction of a land port, the capacity of the port infrastructure in the Caspian increased from 17.5 million to 27 million tons per year.
In 1986 he graduated from the metallurgical faculty of the Kazakh Polytechnic Institute named after Lenin.
On October 14, the EBRD Board of Directors approved the financing of the project; by the end of this year, the concessionaire will ensure financial closure.
Over 3 years, Kazakh and foreign air carriers have opened 19 new routes, including Tokyo, Warsaw, Budapest, Helsinki.
According to him, according to the results of 2018, the volume of the gross regional product of the city amounted to 2 trillion tenge.
Within 7 years, more than 40 thousand rental houses for waiting lists will be built annually in the akimat. within 7 years it is planned to build more than 40 thousand rental apartments for waiting lists of akimats .
According to the results of 2025, the share of roads in good and satisfactory condition will be brought from 73.6% to 95%.
The heads of government noted the important potential for further building up mutual trade, which in 2018 amounted to $80 million.
According to the adopted results, it is planned to increase the share of domestic materials in budget projects to 90% by 2022.
Work is also underway to strengthen public awareness, and 100 per cent of the plan will be implemented by the end of the year.
The current account deficit in 2020-2024 is projected from 4.1% in 2020 to 2.3% in 2023-2024.
During the reporting period, 379.4 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the industry, which is 37% more than in the same period last year.
In total, 207 objects were exhibited from the funds of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including the symbol of Kazakhstan - the "golden man."
7.5 thousand people work in the city, of which 5 thousand are restoring the housing stock.
This year, due to adverse weather conditions, we collected less than 2 million tons of grain in bunker weight compared to last year. this year , due to difficult weather conditions , we harvested 2 million tons less grain in bunker weight than last year .
At the same time, the decrease in debt compared to 2018 reached 1.1 billion tenge in Shymkent and 568 million tenge in nur-sultan.
The exhibition will last from September 12 to October 12, 2019 as part of the international exhibition project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
The joint measures will increase the volume of investments in Kazakhstan to $750 million by the end of this year.
Of the 2.6 million new jobs, 600 thousand people are net labor growth, 2 million people are labor inflows in sectors of the economy.
Until January 1, 2020, contracts are concluded with medical providers for 2020 with preparation for work in the mams system.
The European Union tried to cancel roaming for 10 years, as a result of which it was canceled in 2017, "said the head of the Kazakh government.
To develop the technological chain and increase labor productivity under the SPFIID, 279 billion tenge is provided in the republican budget for 2020-2022, the minister said.
This year, 411 projects were launched to provide the population with drinking water and sanitation for 126 billion tenge.
By the end of the year, 4 new renewable electricity facilities with a capacity of 104.8 MW will be commissioned.
the industry is faced with the task of ensuring the production of up to 2020 thousand vehicles per year by the year 100.
in rural areas, 100% of medical organizations are connected to the Internet through public-private partnerships.
It was noted that in the region there is an increase in public awareness of the introduction of memes from 52% to 85%.
Social expenditures for 2020 are planned in the amount of 5.7 trillion tenge with an increase in expenses of 303 billion tenge.
general construction work, laying of underground utilities, installation of tanks, 23 structural modular racks are installed at the plant.
of which in 2020 - 5.9 thousand km, until 2023 - 5 thousand km.
Krymbek Kusherbayev headed the Kyzylorda region for 6 years, made a great contribution to the socio-economic development of the region. krymbek kusherbayev headed the kyzylorda region for 6 years , made a significant contribution to the socio-economic development of the region .
The total volume of container traffic through Kazakhstan increased by 29% compared to last year and amounted to 530.8 thousand twenty-pound equivalents.
Within the framework of the project of young specialists, 180 colleges and 20 universities are planned to improve the material and technical base.
According to the results of the announced measures next year, the digital literacy rate of the population will increase to 80%
In general, the Grain-2019 project will be held on June 3, allocating 9 days from July 3 to 30, 2019.
So, in July of this year, 13 neonatologists took advanced training courses in one of the medical centers of the city of Nur Sultan.
At the same time, in the Russian Federation there is an increase in prices over 5 years due to the small number of products.
Kazagro plans to increase the efficiency of its activities and get a net profit by the end of 2020.
Over 5 years, thanks to a steady increase in consumption, poultry meat production increased by 40% and amounted to 192 thousand tons. over 5 years with a constant increase in consumption , poultry meat production increased by 40 % and amounted to 192 thousand tons .
To date, 113 investment projects totaling 4.4 trillion tenge are being finalized and implemented.
In 2020, it is planned to improve legislation on the protection of the rights of women and children and the fight against domestic violence.
By 2050, small and medium-sized businesses will account for half of gross domestic product. Dalenes.
As part of the development of road infrastructure, it is planned to reconstruct 10 thousand kilometers of the republican network, repair 11 thousand, and the local network - 27 thousand kilometers.
The head of state noted that according to the results of 7 months in many indicators, positive dynamics remained.
Currently, the modernization of all domestic refineries has been fully completed, the construction of a polypropylene plant with a capacity of 500 thousand tons per year has begun.
100 thousand people were covered annually with short-term training, 75 thousand people were involved in the "start-up business" project.
About 8 thousand specialists took part in the large-scale construction - a record number of workers from all regions of the country and cities of republican importance.
At the end of 2018, the volume of exports to the manufacturing industry increased by 21.7% compared to 2016 and amounted to $15.7 billion.
As a result of the measures taken, the rights of more than 36 thousand employees were protected, the current debt of 5.1 billion tenge was repaid.
In addition, he noted that strategic directions for the development of Eurasian economic integration are being developed until 2025.
for comparison, roads of republican importance - 24 thousand km, roads of local importance - 72 thousand km.
In the direction of the development of transport and engineering infrastructure in 2020, it is planned to complete the construction of a new airport passenger terminal and the modernization of the railway station.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening ceremony of the ring road around the city of nur-sultan with a length of 87 km.
9 . In order to improve the quality of medical services, a hospital for the city's population and two clinics will be built;
In connection with the annual indexation and increase in the number of recipients of pensions and benefits, 304 billion tenge is additionally provided.
It is worth noting that since 2020, the annual plan for issuing on behalf of the head of state is at least 10 thousand loans.
The group of Kamazin organizations includes 109 companies in Russia, the CIS and far abroad.
As part of the development of road infrastructure, it is planned to reconstruct 10 thousand kilometers and repair 11 thousand kilometers of republican lines, repair 27 thousand kilometers of local lines.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Asar Mom took part in a joint meeting of the houses of parliament, at which the government report on the implementation of the republican budget for 2018 was adopted.
To do this, it is important for us to annually increase the volume of attracted investments from $24 billion in 2018 to more than $34 billion by 2025, "said A. Mamin.
According to the results of 7 months, 6.5 million square meters of housing were introduced in housing construction. in the field of housing , according to the results of 7 months , 6.5 million square meters were commissioned .
At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the National Company kazakh invest, chaired by the Prime Minister, the results of work for 11 months of this year were considered.
and in 2022, 5g technology will appear at airports and train stations, large trading platforms and platforms.
In 2020, the second stage will be introduced, which will increase production to 50 thousand tons.
The World Bank annually publishes a rating of 190 states on the convenience of business conditions.
According to the results of 9 months of 2019, mutual trade between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan increased by 25% to $2.6 billion.
assets of the national fund increased by 2.1% to $59.2 billion, revenues to the national budget - by 8386.6 billion tenge (100% of the plan), the growth rate was 113.7%.
Until the end of 2020, the low-cost airline will fly to many regional centers, opening international ties to Moscow.
92 projects worth 41 billion tenge were approved, and 166 projects worth more than 280 billion tenge are under consideration in banks.
in East Kazakhstan, Turkestan, Zhambyl and Pavlodar regions, growth is above 4 indicators, in Atyrau - 3, "said R. Dalenov.
berdybek saparbayev presented another 50 books to the National Library and Institute of Ancient Manuscripts "Matenaran."
At the construction site of Zheo-3, the head of government was informed that the first stage of the construction of Zheo-3 provides for the construction of a hot water boiler with a capacity of 480 gcal/hour.
that is, now there are 39 investment passports for which part of the invested investments is partially reimbursed.
Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan Roman Sklyar reported on the development of industries in January-July 2019 at a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
this will increase the permissible volume of the region from 2 trillion in 2018 to 3.5 trillion by 2023.
the government is developing two concepts: one - a "state that listens to the voice of the people" and the development of civil society until 2025.
Since the beginning of the year, within the framework of social responsibility, more than 203 thousand enterprises have increased the wages of 1.2 million of their employees by 32%.
An annual commitment was made to provide housing for 6,000 low-income families and 3,000 working young people.
According to our data, only 66% of schools are equipped with special sports equipment, "he said.
The project envisages the construction of Shymkent and Saryagash ring roads (150 km) and the commissioning of roads with a total length of 265 km.
Over the period from 2005 to 2018, the share of SMEs in the country's economy almost tripled - from 10.5% to 28.4%. from 2005 to 2018 , the share of smes in the country 's economy almost tripled - from 10.5 % to 28.4 % .
Since 2020, it is planned to create a corresponding module of "export control" in the information systems of state revenue bodies.
As a result, according to the measures taken, budget savings from the initial calculation amounted to $1.2 billion, which saved more than $800 million for project maintenance and $350 million for construction and installation work. as a result , according to the measures taken , the budget savings from the initial calculation amounted to $ 1.2 billion : this is more than $ 800 million saved in project maintenance , $ 350 million in construction and installation work .
The Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan reported on the results of the development of industry and transport industry for 10 months of 2019.
In addition, the Ministry started working out 9 projects of the second pool with investments of about 400 billion tenge.
To implement five activities, it is necessary to implement more than 31 thousand projects.
Note that after the incident at the military training ground, it was found that 85% of all houses in the city are damaged.
As a result of the camera control, there were no violations in state procurement for 547 billion tenge.
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of the socio-economic development of the country in January-October 2019 and the implementation of the republican budget were considered.
Askar Zhumagaliyev noted that since the opening of the astana hub international technology park in 2018, about 29 billion tenge of investments have been attracted to horse-drawn startups.
In addition, exports of Kazakhstan mother products to China grew by 41% in monetary terms and amounted to $196 million.
At the next government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of socio-economic development for January-October 2019 and the implementation of the republican budget were considered.
The reconstruction project of the 80 km long Schuchinsk-Zerenda road has been completed.
Memorandum of cooperation between agro-park and dutch greenhouse delta on the construction of 200 hectares of agro-park in Turkestan region.
He noted that in 2015, a country program for three years (2015-2018) was signed with eidu.
The implementation of the 2023 plan will achieve the following indicators:
the deadlines for business inspections by government agencies have been reduced from 30 to 15 days.
In this regard, the first President of Kazakhstan instructed to develop territorial development programs for each district, city and region by March 1, 2020.
this will ensure a reduction in imports by almost $5 billion, reduce inflation imports and interest rates on loans. this will ensure a reduction in imports by about $ 5 billion , reduce import inflation and interest rates on loans .
in the draft republican budget for 2020, revenues will amount to 11.2 trillion tenge with an increase of 639 billion tenge to the current year's plan.
6.6 million people or 85% of the rural population live in these villages, the development of which will be a priority.
the factory, equipped with modern equipment, produces up to 24 thousand tons of 30 per year 4 different confectionery products.
the second is the write-off of fines and penalties for tax-free consumer loans of all Kazakhstanis as of July 1, 2019.
the number of employed people will increase from 8.7 million people in 2018 to 9.3 million people by 2025.
In accordance with the order of the head of state, an additional 30 billion tenge is provided for the repair of 780 apartment buildings, "said the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
On Friday, October 4, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev arrived on a working trip to Karaganda region.
At the end of 2018, trade between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan grew by 37.3% to $2.2 billion.
Today 258 thousand Kazakhstanis are covered by employment measures, 95 thousand - youth, "he said. saparov.
The interdepartmental commission for the optimization of public services with beneficiaries conducted 723 analyses of public services.
In March 2014, he was appointed Minister of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, then Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Head of the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
By the end of 2019, 685 villages will be connected to the Internet, and in 2020 it is planned to connect another 509 villages.
pamz 39 purchased modern high-performance machines, computerized the entire technological process.
we estimate the additional share of inflation from fiscal stimulus in 2019 at 0.5 percentage points. we estimate the additional contribution to inflation from fiscal stimulus in 2019 at 0.5 pp .
According to the results of the program, 3 thousand km of roads of republican significance were built and reconstructed.
200 billion tenge is allocated annually from the national and local budgets for local roads.
As a result of attracting individual entrepreneurs to build schools in the country, 47 new private schools were opened this year.
While maintaining the current pace, by 2027 we are producing more than 80 billion cubic meters, "said A. Mamin.
The facility is located 16 km from the regional center and will be commissioned in December 2020.
At the end of 2018, the share of renewable energy amounted to 1.3% of all electricity generated.
In 2013, the law was amended, approved tariffs and the concept of a single buyer were introduced.
60 billion tenge of budget loans were allocated by the agrarian credit corporation to finance spring field and harvesting work this year. a budget loan in the amount of 60 billion tenge has been allocated by the agrarian credit corporation to finance spring field and harvesting operations this year .
For 5 years, the cost of housing will be about 10 thousand tenge and for utilities - 20 thousand tenge.
this is a trade secret, but you must understand that a ticket of 1000 tenge is a stock price that is impossible for all places.
less prepared than other regions is observed in Atyrau region - 95.2%, Aktobe region - 98.9%, West Kazakhstan region - 99%.
4.1 million tons of diesel fuel were produced or 108.1% compared to the same period in 2018.
The government intends to bring the indicator of investment in fixed assets to 30% by 2025.
In 2014, the Government adopted long-term tariffs for wind, solar, hydropower and biogas equipment.
the number of transit air carriers has increased by 4 times, it is planned to increase to 1 million by the end of this year.
The cost of producing 1 m ² of water was reduced by 12 times.
127 agreements in the field of health care worth 58.9 billion tenge were concluded by local executive bodies.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the country's GDP increased from 24.9% in 2015 to 28.4% in 2018.
At the same time, the share of Kazakh content in the production of finished products is more than 94%.
According to the forecasts of the World Economic Forum, by 2022 the damage to the global economy from cybercrime may exceed $8 trillion, "said the Prime Minister.
In 2016, "tumo" took first place in the ranking of innovative schools in the world, compiled by the French magazine "we demain."
Since the beginning of the year, we collected 4 billion 130 million tenge from these four toll roads, "said the chairman of the committee.
A set of measures to reduce the gap in the quality of education between the city and the village will be developed in 2020.
Here, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was presented a project for the construction of a mining and metallurgical complex in the Turkestan region with a capacity of 1 million tons of iron per year.
In general, since 2016, the volume of industry in the country has increased by 15.7%, manufacturing - by 16.3%.
The volume of gasoline production amounted to 3.6 million tons or 112.5% compared to the same period in 2018.
52% of loans in the amount of up to 3 million tenge, 45% in the amount of from 3 million tenge to 10 million tenge.
at the same time, in all regions there is an excess of threshold values ​ ​ mainly for vegetables, meat, bread and buckwheat by 15%. at the same time , thresholds are exceeded by more than 15 % in all regions , mainly for vegetables , meat , bread and buckwheat .
In 2018, the holding allocated 114 billion tenge for lending to livestock, which is 30% of the total volume of loans issued.
The headquarters of Turkestan region told about the work carried out to pay compensation for 100 thousand tenge.
The exhibition will last from November 11 to December 11, 2019 as part of the international exhibition project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
In general, the task of import substitution in the medium term can be implemented until 2024, "the minister said.
As a result of the work of the intergovernmental commission, 27 documents were signed for a total amount of more than $1.5 billion.
To date, 81 renewable energy facilities with a total capacity of 930 megawatts are operating in Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh side has developed a list of 100 potential goods that can be delivered to the Mongolian market from Kazakhstan, "the Prime Minister said.
Recall that 85% of houses in the Lviv region require repairs.
for harvesting, there are 147 thousand tractors, 82.3 thousand tractor trailers, 38.5 thousand combine harvesters, 15.2 thousand grates, 40.3 thousand trucks, "S. Omarov said.
Our goal is to bring to 30 square meters by 2030, "summed up B. atamkulov.
the volume index for the transport complex for January-October 2019 amounted to 105.6%.
in addition, a full transition to compulsory social health insurance will be carried out from 2020.
Since 2020, 15 categories of socially vulnerable population have been defined by law.
By the end of this year, 50 thousand loans will be issued for a total amount of 5 billion tenge, "said A. Aripkhanov.
a moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized businesses for a period of 3 years is also introduced.
with reaching full capacity, the number of employees of the enterprise will double to 500 people.
To date, a pool of investment projects has been formed that will attract 41 trillion tenge of investment in 2020-2024.
Construction is planned to be completed in 2023, "said the deputy akim of the capital.
Due to the supply of goods, services and work, funds totaling 39 billion tenge were reimbursed.
Kazakhstan is Singapore's largest trade and economic partner in Central Asia, bilateral trade in 2018 exceeded $520 million.
Kazakhstan recorded a significant increase in the indicators "obtaining credit" (+ 35 positions), "registration of enterprises" (+ 14 positions), "connection to the power supply system" (+ 9 positions).
To this end, the governments of Kazakhstan and Tajikistan are working to increase the volume of mutual trade to $2 billion in the next 3-4 years.
a total of 18 protocols were signed, which will increase trade between the two countries.
The volume of grants for the implementation of new business ideas will increase to 37 billion tenge with coverage of more than 18 thousand people.
About 329 billion tenge was invested in the development of transport and logistics infrastructure in the main distribution points of cargo flows.
in turn, e. Kanagatov noted that 339 sets of medals in 33 sports will be played at the Tokyo Olympiad.
for the first time 5 sports were included, namely: karate, autumn jerk, baseball, skateboarding and surfing.
16 r & d centers of companies such as cisco, ibm, huawei, intellisense were opened in the technology park for further study and educational support of startups.
the volume of air fuel production amounted to 524.5 thousand tons or 182% compared to the same period in 2018.
As of July 6, 2019, 271 houses were reconstructed in the city of arys, Turkestan Region.
According to the chairman of the state corporation, 17 migration centers work to facilitate services to foreign citizens.
Over the years of the implementation of this second five-year plan, about 120 thousand entrepreneurs received state support. over the years of the implementation of the second five-year plan , about 120 thousand entrepreneurs were supported .
For this, from 2020, a new methodology for financing the construction and overhaul of schools will be proposed.
now 16 projects worth 2.2 billion tenge are being implemented in such sectors as the construction and processing of minerals.
As of July 9, 2019, 434 houses were reconstructed in the city of arys, Turkestan Region.
By the end of the year, 80% of public services will be available to the population via the Internet.
Since 2014 1.4 trillion tenge has been allocated for the development of engineering infrastructure. Dalenes.
Today, in 2020-2024, a pool of investment projects was created, which will attract more than 41 trillion tenge of investment.
The price of diesel fuel for the autumn field work of 2019 will be 198 thousand tenge per ton (164 tenge/liter). the recommended price of diesel fuel for autumn field work in 2019 is 198 thousand tenge / ton ( 164 tenge / liter ) .
In general, 593 thousand people should be updated in the country, "said E. birtanov.
In the first half of 2019, the total capitalization of the akhko stock market amounted to $1.9 billion.
The project will be implemented by the Turkish investor "yda holding" as part of a public-private partnership in 2022.
according to the approved schedule, 380 thousand tons of diesel fuel should be supplied to agricultural producers.
The training period in this training center is 3 months, the monthly scholarship is 21 thousand tenge.
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan in January-August 2019, the results of the socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the implementation of the republican budget were summed up.
Until the end of the year the government will approve the housing programme of "Nrla zher" till 2025.
The updated forecast of revenues of the republican budget for 2019 (with the exception of transfers) is determined in the amount of 7 trillion 81 billion tenge.
For 7 months of this year, the volume of mutual trade increased by 73.5% compared to the same period in 2018.
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of the socio-economic development of the country in January-October 2019 and the implementation of the republican budget were considered.
more than 4 thousand companies with European participation, more than 2 thousand joint ventures are registered in Kazakhstan today.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development, on July 5, 2019, 236 houses in the city of arys of the Turkestan region were reconstructed.
in addition, Atameken organizes online courses for young people covering 25 thousand people.
At the end of 2018, the digital literacy rate was 79.6%, the planned indicator was 77%.
nominal gross domestic product will grow from 75 trillion tenge in 2020 to 106 trillion tenge in 2024.
The head of government noted that the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" has proved its effectiveness.
To date, 698 residential buildings are being finished, another 41 houses were built by builders from scratch.
As a result of the work, the volume of innovative products in 2018 increased by 25% compared to the previous year and amounted to 1 trillion 179 billion tenge.
Since 2014, transit traffic through Kazakhstan has increased from 17 million to 20 million tons (2019), that is, by 12%.
The concept of the state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the interests of children until 2030 should be developed before the end of 2019.
Based on this pool, the demand for newly trained personnel until 2025 is estimated at 1.3 million people.
As of September 19, 2019, 419 units or 54.5% of the plan have been withdrawn.
total investment in construction, equipment of two medical facilities will amount to about 110 billion tenge.
As a result, imports of goods are estimated at $33.7 billion in 2019 compared to the April estimate of $34 billion.
At the age of 13, I lost my leg and did not lose myself, believed in my strength and increased my love for life.
gas exports amounted to 15.3 billion cubic meters, or 91.1% compared to the same period in 2018.
The Prime Minister instructed to provide the planned indicator of the current year - 13 million square meters of housing.
on the instructions of the head of state and head of state, all damaged and destroyed facilities should be commissioned by August 1, 2019.
581 passenger and 20 thousand units of freight cars, about 130 units of traction rolling stock (58 electric locomotives and 72 diesel locomotives) were purchased.
Compared to the same period last year, revenue growth was provided by 14% and amounted to 911 billion tenge.
the increase in housing commissioning continues in 9 regions of the republic compared to last year.
In 2017-2019, wage arrears decreased by 169 million tenge, or 9.8%, to 1.4 billion tenge.
The head of government instructed to develop a draft national plan for the implementation of the tasks set out in the message of the head of state by September 7.
This year, Kazakhstani athletes won a record 19 medals at the world championships, which indicates the presence of good potential.
On October 1, 2019, in the city of Kuala Lumpur, the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan inaugurated the exhibition "The Great Steppe: History and Culture."
In general, 71 projects for the development of consumer goods worth 87.6 billion tenge are underway in the region.
Thus, over the 10 months of this year, the volume of lending increased by 32% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 362 billion tenge.
Preparatory work is underway to implement a project for the production of polyethylene with a capacity of 1 million 250 thousand tons.
This year, 75 thousand people will be trained in entrepreneurship skills under the Start of Business project.
in addition, pedestrian crossings of underground construction will be proportionally optimized, which will save more than $110 million (42 billion tenge).
on the instructions of the head of state and head of state, all damaged and destroyed facilities should be commissioned by August 1, 2019.
At the next meeting of the government, chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a draft state program for the development of regions until 2025 was considered.
Today, the population of the region is 1 million 125 thousand people, including 680 thousand people (60%) live in rural areas.
More than $628 million was allocated for the implementation of private sector projects in the field of renewable energy, agribusiness and finance.
the corresponding domestic initiative was approved by the 39th general conference of the organization in November 2017.
Now 1.6 construction companies 150 work on individual housing construction and apartment buildings.
that is, annually attract an average of 3 trillion tenge of additional investments.
The volume of SME products increased from 13.3 to 23.4 trillion tenge by 10 trillion tenge.
We are now following the development of 100 projects, half of which will be completed by the end of next year. now we are monitoring the development of 100 projects , half of which will be completed by the end of next year .
Paralympic, winner of the project "100 new names of Kazakhstan."
revenues to the republican budget were collected in the amount of 5 trillion 285 billion tenge or 100% of the plan for the reporting period.
investment projects, which are currently being worked out and implemented jointly with the Turkish side, amount to more than $6 billion.
next year, the implementation of the "turnover" scheme is planned throughout the country and in all 19 commodity items.
On October 15, the XXI meeting of the intergovernmental commission on cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation was held in the city of Nur-Sultan.
It is also instructed to develop a program for the production of 10 especially socially significant products.
Compared to 2015, the number of small and medium-sized businesses increased by 400 thousand, amounting to 1.3 million in comparison with 2015, the number of operating smes increased by 400 thousand, amounting to 1.3 million.
the main increase was value added tax - 443 billion tenge, corporate income tax - 194 billion tenge, taxes on international trade and foreign operations - 105 billion tenge.
During the meeting, the annual report for 2018, development plans and reports on the implementation of the annual budget of the development institute were approved.
this, according to preliminary data, will allow 508 thousand citizens of the country to receive state support in the amount of 105.5 billion tenge.
All the main work on the restoration of the Arysian city should be completed by August 1, "said Askar Mamin.
5 . this decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
per capita in 2020 will be $10.5 thousand, in 2024 it will increase to $14.3 thousand.
By the end of 2019, the concept of a "listening state" and the concept of the development of civil society until 2025 will be developed.
According to the minister, for the full implementation of the mam system from January 1, 2020, work will continue in the following areas:
The total amount of financing until 2025 will amount to 1.3 trillion tenge.
According to him, as of January 2019, 1, 487 thousand people lived in the queue for housing.
Born May 7, 1975 in the city of Shu, Zhambyl region.
In January-April 2019, compared to the same period last year, growth amounted to $1.1 billion.
By 2024, it is planned to increase the level of investment in fixed assets to 30%.
To date, 19 types of products of the agro-industrial complex are allowed to enter the Chinese market.
Within its framework, 1 trillion 314 billion tenge of budget and private investments were allocated.
- Postpone December 20, 2020 from Sunday to Friday December 18, 2020, "the text of the resolution says.
transit of freight traffic increased by 1.5 times and amounted to from 1 million 300 to 1 million 800 thousand.
The fund received 268 billion tenge of net cash revenue and brought 70 percent, that is, 190 billion tenge to the state. the fund , having received 268 billion tenge of net cash income , gave 70 percent to the state , or 190 billion tenge .
the real contribution of the national welfare fund to the growth of the well-being of the population over the previous 14 years will be assessed. we will evaluate the real contribution of the national welfare fund to the growth of the welfare of the people over the past 14 years .
Born May 19, 1964 in the village of Uzynagash, Almaty region.
you are faced with the task of winning at least 100 licenses, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
akimats should transfer points and make a list of candidates within 10 working days.
To date, instead of 33 emergency Saman houses, brick houses have been built by builders.
At various stages of project planning and preparation there are 638 projects worth 1.9 trillion tenge.
The exhibition will last until October 12 as part of the international exhibition project "Golden Man Parade in Museums of the World."
At the end of 2019, renewable energy sources will produce 2.4 billion kWh.
plus personal subsidiary farms with incomes of 500 thousand tenge per month.
Including within the framework of the youth year, 20 thousand young citizens were trained under the "young entrepreneur" project.
Recently, a solar station with a capacity of 50 megawatts was commissioned in the Karaganda region.
At different stages of repair, work is underway on 4 power units, October 28 and 18 turbines, "said M. Dosmukhambetov.
the total investment of Kazakhtelecom in white and transtelecom is 68 billion tenge.
француз делегациясы құрамында total , orano , alstom , airbus , vicat , air liquide , idemia , renault cis & lada export , veolia , bouygues travaux publics , catering international services , dv conseil , lazard , sanofi , technipfmc , tecofi s.a.s. companies.
Compared to October 1, 2018, the growth rate amounted to 118.5% or 751 billion tenge.
at the local level, they were developed by 99% or by 1 trillion 60 billion tenge. " smailov.
The volume index for the transport complex in January-July 2019 amounted to 105.4%.
The comprehensive development plan of the city of Shymkent until 2023 is aimed at giving the city a new development dynamics.
Besides, a. Sospanova noted that in 2019, facilities are actively commissioned in Kazakhstan.
In general, this year the number of students in secondary education organizations will exceed 3 million people.
uranium production exceeded 9 thousand tons, which amounted to 2018 to the corresponding period of 100.4% of the year.
At a government meeting chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the results of the execution of the republican budget in January-September 2019 and the socio-economic development of the country were considered.
The number of employees in SMEs as of July 1, 2019 amounted to 3.3 million people.
30% of loans in the urban area - at auction, 15% - in industry, 12% - in the construction industry.
for transport industries, most of the investments are in road and railway projects - 37% and 40%, respectively.
Today, the social status of 97% of the population is determined in the country, 98% in the Karaganda region.
638 projects worth 1.9 trillion tenge are under preparation. Dalenes.
At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the results of socio-economic development and the implementation of the republican budget in January-July 2019 were summed up.
Since January 1, 2020, there are instructions from the head of state and the president to launch mams.
In general, in the region it is planned to cover more than 400 km of local roads with construction and repair work.
The current account deficit in 2019 compared to the zero balance of 2018 will be 2.7% of GDP.
Kazakhstan received 79.6 points out of 100 possible after Germany with 79.7 points.
Minister of Education and Science Askhat aimagambetov noted that in secondary education Kazakhstan participates in 5 comparative studies, the main of which are research pisa (program for international student assessment), timss (trends in international mathematics and science study), pirls (progress in international reading literature study).
Almaty, Aktobe, Akmola, North Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions - 5 goods, "the Minister said.
the center serves children with musculoskeletal disorders aged one and a half to 18 years.
and with the participation of second-level banks, 600 billion tenge is provided for the support of private entrepreneurs.
98% of the total available equipment is ready for the start of harvesting.
In accordance with the Road Map for the Year of Youth, 89 activities are being implemented in all spheres of life of the country.
our overall goal is to increase investment in the industry by at least 30% annually.
3 thousand apartments will be built in 3 years to solve housing issues of working youth.
At the same time, the plan for 2019 has been increased to 17 million tons, the forecast - to 17.1 million tons, "he said.
The head of government noted that Kazakhstan produces about 90 million tons of oil per year, which will lead the country to the number of 15 largest global producers.
the first stage was launched at the Makinsky poultry farm, capacity - 25 thousand tons of poultry meat per year.
expenditures of the state budget were fulfilled by 98.3%, the republican budget - by 98.9% and local budgets - by 98%.
annual inflation was at 5.4%, while in July 2018 it amounted to 5.9%.
own revenues of local budgets exceeded by 120 billion tenge or amounted to 1 trillion 845 billion tenge.
the capacity of the enterprise is 120 head of cattle per day or 10 thousand tons of meat per year.
electricity generation amounted to 85.9 billion square meters or 98.1% compared to the same period in 2018.
about $4 billion will be allocated for the implementation of the program, of which more than 70% are private investments.
In the region, work is underway to attract private investment for the construction of 45 new hotel complexes.
The leaders of the 2019 ranking - New Zealanders and Singapore - retained their positions.
According to the Minister, over the past 5 years, about 5 trillion 800 billion tenge of investments have been attracted in the development of transport infrastructure.
In turn, 1 million state purchases totaling 6 trillion tenge were covered by camera control.
on the instructions of the head of state and head of state, all damaged and destroyed facilities should be commissioned by August 1, 2019.
next year it is planned to sow the obtained seeds for 150 thousand hectares. " lobster.
we aim to join the top 20 countries in 2025. we set ourselves the goal of entering the top twenty by 2025 .
on the instructions of the head of state and head of state, all damaged and destroyed facilities should be commissioned by August 1, 2019.
The government is tasked with ensuring 100% access to quality drinking water by 2023.
softbank investment advisors is one of the largest investment funds in the world, part of the softbank group with a market capitalization of $100 billion.
78 units were included in the state register of aircraft, and 22 aircraft were replenished with the fleet of main carriers.
According to the Minister of Finance, 130 billion tenge was revised and allocated in the draft of the updated republican budget.
in particular, compared to the beginning of 2018, wage arrears decreased by 34% or by 740 million tenge.
wear of water supply networks in single-industry towns decreased by 10% and wear of electric networks - by 12%.
next year it is planned to reach design capacity and increase production to 12 thousand transformers per year.
25 contracting and subcontracting organizations work on the construction site of the plant, about 3300 people are involved.
the best indicators by region are observed in Pavlodar (70%), East Kazakhstan (61.5%) and Kyzylorda (61.2%) regions.
As of July 18, the number of restored houses reached 1,469.
Currently, private partners have included 177 government agencies in the project.
Since March 2016 - First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the plan of legislative works of the Government of Kazakhstan for 2020 was considered.
Over the past three years, the credit coverage of the rural population has increased by 5 times.
the development of professional standards is carried out by the first president - the head of state. on behalf of Nazarbayev in 2012. we started work on professional standards on behalf of the first president - elbasy nursultan nazarbayev in 2012 .
Up to 60 million tenge is guaranteed, and a grant of up to 3 million tenge is provided.
The first President of Kazakhstan was shown samples of the future Turkestan International Airport and a multidisciplinary hospital with 600 seats.
We plan to process 14.9 million tons of oil in 2014, 17.2 million tons in 2019. in 2019 , we plan to process 17.2 million tons of oil compared to 14.9 million in 2014 .
this made it possible to reduce the cost of monthly mortgage payments by 30% for 3.5 thousand Kazakhstanis.
This year, more than 7.5 trillion tenge or 45% of the republican budget expenditures were allocated to the social sphere. over 7.5 trillion tenge or 45 % of the republican budget expenditures were directed to the social sphere this year .
151 projects were implemented and launched: for construction - 7 projects, for reconstruction - 24, for overhaul - 20, with an average repair - 100.
At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamin, the draft state program for the development of regions until 2025 was considered.
This year we plan to bring this figure to 1 million transit passengers, "said the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development.
This year, 45 per cent of the State budget is devoted to financing health, education, culture and sports.
During the presentation of the new minister, the askar mother of the nurymbets noted 20 years of experience in the social sphere.
Work continues on the development of the ground infrastructure of Kazakhstan airports, the total investment in which amounted to 128 billion tenge.
By the end of the year, it is necessary to complete 95 integrations (18 central state bodies each), "the minister said.
By 2025, more than a third of the economy will belong to small and medium-sized businesses.
Earlier, air astana operated 14 flights a week, this year scat airline added 7 flights. prior to this , 14 flights were operated by air astana per week , this year another 7 flights were added by scat .
This year, 348 projects are being implemented: for construction - 8 projects, for reconstruction - 25, with overhaul - 60, with average repair - 255.
The growth rate of tax revenues to the state budget amounted to 14%, which is 886 billion tenge more compared to the previous period.
The next XXII meeting was decided to be held in 2020 in the Russian Federation.
In the first half of this year, the influx of direct French investments in the economy of Kazakhstan increased by more than 24%, to $537 million.
where the calculation is based on the fact that housing is provided for a period of 5 years.
this is 21% more than last year.
currently, the number of online centers accounts for 95% of the total number of registered enterprises.
of these, about 220 thousand people from socially vulnerable segments of the population.
These measures will optimize the project for $350 million, which is 135 billion tenge, the akim of the nur-sultan said.
In the Turkestan region, sector No. 7, repair work is underway at 111 facilities.
According to local budgets there was a surplus in the amount of 20 billion tenge. smailov.
Since 2018, state grants have begun to be awarded as part of the Labor program.
More than 405 thousand children attend grade 1, which is 20 thousand more than last year.
Since June 1, wages for individual public sector employees have been increased to 30%.
the increase in housing delivery continues in 7 regions of the republic compared to last year.
nevertheless, 785 thousand people were identified in information systems, which is 4% of the population.
From December 15, 2019, self-service terminals will be installed in all medical organizations.
The total amount of funding for the new state program until 2025 will amount to 6.598 trillion tenge.
growth in gross domestic product with an increase in urbanization by 1% will be 0.12%.
From 2005 to the first half of 2019, the eu invested about $150 billion.
Social expenditures for 2020 are planned in the amount of 5.7 trillion tenge.
As part of the implementation of 5 social initiatives of the head of state, about 24 thousand microcredits were issued.
Also, as part of the program, over the past period, 10 thousand km were repaired along the republican network.
In total, according to experts, 455 individual residential facilities should be demolished.
96 billion tenge was allocated to the meat sector in the structure of livestock, 18 billion tenge to milk.
The plant in Aktobe annually produces about 440 thousand tons of products.
During the day, builders handed over another 109 residential buildings in the city of arys.
7 . engineering infrastructure, electricity and communications are restored from the fund of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
one half of the increase in food prices comes from 19 socially important food products.
As part of the new state program, 6 trillion 598 billion tenge is provided until 2025.
At the same time, existing private schools are supplemented by 45%.
There is an assumption that by the end of 2019 this share will grow to 2.3%.
In addition, he drew attention to the fact that licenses for the 2020 Olympic Games were received slightly.
820 cases were transferred to law enforcement agencies, 116 criminal cases were instituted in them.
Until the end of 2021, it is planned to introduce a Nazarbayev university and expo in the nur-sultan.
Born June 30, 1968 in the village of aksu, Shymkent region.
according to the results of inspections, 681 passes were withdrawn, 393 foreign workers were removed from the country.
70% of students studying by work qualifications from the category of socially sensitive population.
From February 25, 2019 to the present, he holds the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
According to him, contracts between investors and the settlement and financial center approached 3 thousand megawatts.
In 2020, it is planned to test the system of certification and recognition of qualifications in priority sectors.
The International Space Day Forum in Kazakhstan has been held annually since 2013.
In total, it is planned to place 3 projects worth 350 billion tenge in the region with the creation of 14 thousand jobs.
as a result, the share of repayment reached 86% or its share increased by 7%.
On July 2-4, 2019, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova paid a working visit to the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Sector No. 5, assigned to the Karaganda region, covers mainly apartment buildings.
of these, 15 facilities with a capacity of 405.17 MW were commissioned this year.
10 events are planned to be implemented in the direction of powerful regions - a powerful country in.
and the remaining 50 per cent was delayed or poor budget planning.
The builders of sector 3 of Zhambyl region have completed reconstruction of 5 houses.
As a result, 556 road maps were approved and implemented on the recommendations of the commission.
it is entrusted to akimats of regions to define sources of joint financing of the remained 30% of expenses.
b. sholpankulov noted that the implementation of funds at all levels of budgets has improved compared to 2018.
By the end of the year, government agencies need to complete work on another 70 public services.
long-term loans - 11 trillion tenge, short-term loans - 1.9 trillion tenge.
Currently, about 512 thousand people are in queues in akimats for housing.
In the next 2 years, we plan to expand production through the production of new types of products. for the next 2 years we plan to expand production through the development of new types of products .
In 2019, 452 infrastructure projects worth 30 billion tenge are being implemented in 53 villages with a population of about 700 thousand people.
The Prime Minister noted that in June 2020, the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference is scheduled to be held in the city of Nur-Sultan.
It is worth noting that already in 2018 more than 86 thousand jobs were created.
As a result of digitization of administrative procedures, the budget received 280 billion tenge. smailov.
At a government meeting chaired by Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asar Mamaev, the progress of harvesting in 2019 was considered.
assets of the National Fund increased by 15% compared to 9 months of 2018 and amounted to 26 trillion 447 billion tenge.
134 construction companies work at the facilities, more than 3.8 thousand workers and 211 units of special equipment are involved.
The remaining 905 single-storey private buildings must be repaired before 10 August.
planning for the development of support and satellite villages by year, until 2027.
To date, 81% of residents of the Karaganda region have status in the Mams system.
Kazakhstan sk built in 2001, it is necessary to carry out major repairs.
558 projects worth 243 billion tenge are being implemented in the field of education.
Kazakhstan has been a member of the international association of athletics federations (iaaf) since 1993.
as a result, the amount of revealed violations on tax inspections increased to 129 billion tenge.
It is proposed to spend 240 billion tenge to replace worn-out networks as part of the budget lending mechanism.
about 60% of low-income children are children from large families (56.5%).
As a result of digitalization of the system of state revenue bodies, the budget received an additional 520 billion tenge.
On implementation of the state program "Nrla zhol" 554 billion tenges are provided in the republican budget.
Kazakhstan has more than 11 thousand sports facilities, 86% of schools are equipped with sports halls.
The First Vice Minister of Energy reported on the results of the development of the energy complex for 10 months.
These funds are proposed to be allocated until 2027. sklar.
On Friday, September 13, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Berdybek Saparbayev paid a working visit to the republic.
the lowest indicators on receivables are observed in Almaty region - 5 million tenge.
At the first stages, the enterprise provides for the production of 180 thousand tons of fully export-oriented products per year.
Cooperation of Kazakhstan with chevron is carried out in the framework of the following projects: sea (50%), Karachaganak (18%) and Caspian pipeline consortium (15%).
The Prime Minister noted that 244 million tenge was allocated for the electricity supply of 828 houses in 195 quarter of Shymkent.
beef production amounted to 477 thousand tons, which provides 98% of domestic consumption.
gas exports amounted to 7.7 billion m3 or 89.5% compared to the corresponding period of 2018.
Financing of the local network increased to 200 billion tenge. sklar.
The total amount of attracted investments is 243 billion tenge, "said the Minister of Education and Science.
more than 30% of debtors from individuals repay the main debt in the amount of 10 billion tenge.
the volume of food products is only 45 thousand tons, which is 3% of the population's needs in the regions.
Compared to 8 months of 2018, revenues increased by 118.1% or by 669 billion tenge more.
The volume of production and processing is planned to increase by 2 times and increase to 300 thousand tons per year.
the state budget plan for revenues was executed by 101% or 76 billion tenge was unscheduled.
Already this year 600 million tenge was allocated to equip the center with equipment, "said Manshuk aimurzieva.
As a result of the measures taken since 2015, network wear decreased from 67% to 57%.
In 2019, 97% of citizens and 87% of rural residents will be provided with centralized water supply.
At the end of 2018, trade grew by 32.5% or by $4.5 billion.
The head of government noted that the total pool of investment projects for the upcoming five-year period will be about $120 billion.
the number of Internet users in Kazakhstan in 2018 amounted to 81.3% and Kazakhstan took 45th place in the world ranking.
the economic effect of these measures in 2018 amounted to 218 billion tenge, for 9 months of 2019 - 305 billion tenge. the economic effect of the work carried out amounted to 218 billion tenge in 2018 , and for 9 months of 2019 - 305 billion tenge .
state budget revenues grew by 14%, republican - by 17% and local budgets - by 7%.
the budget deficit was 503 billion tenge or 0.7% of gross domestic product.
In the first 6 months of 2019, production in the sector increased by 31.7%, "said the Prime Minister.
324 companies with the participation of Swiss capital are registered in Kazakhstan, including glencore international ag, philip morris, nestle, ammann asphalt gmbh, etc.
30% of products are supplied to the domestic market, and 70% are exported.
this year, 963 students graduated from the university walls, including 565 bachelors, 378 masters and 20 phd doctors.
According to the results of the first half of 2019, trade amounted to $8.8 billion.
In May 2018, the capital of Kazakhstan was included in the unwto pulestes program.
Over the year, we advanced 8 positions in the doing business ranking and climbed 28th place, "said the first president of Kazakhstan.
According to him, today in 17 regions there are 87 cities and 6.5 thousand villages.
By 2020, it is necessary to increase to 211 billion tenge, by 2021 - to 274 billion tenge.
all affected and destroyed facilities must be commissioned by August 1, 2019.
1 trillion tenge is allocated for the development of the agricultural sector, of which 355 billion will be allocated in 2020.
186 thousand new jobs were created, of which 126 thousand are permanent, "said Askar Mamin.
According to the results of 10 months of this year, the growth rate of the construction sector amounted to 12.7%.
our strategic goal is to achieve annual growth of 5%.
In 2013, flights in 73 directions increased to 99 directions in 2019.
For nine months of this year, targeted social assistance was assigned to 417 thousand families or 2.1 million people.
According to preliminary estimates, these projects should attract about $1 billion to the country.
During the reporting period, the regions were allocated targeted transfers in the amount of 1 trillion 256 billion tenge.
our colleges provide statistics that their employment rate is 90% or higher. our colleges report statistics that their employment rate is 90 % and higher .
Launch of a single window on export-import operations (March 27, 2019).
At the end of the year, 97% of the urban population and 87% of the rural population will be provided with water.
low production rate: Kostanay region - 13%, Akmola region - 36% and Karaganda region - 51%.
also compared to 2018 in Almaty there is an increase in debt by 533 million tenge.
the average annual growth of private investment was 33%.
Thus, the number of people covered by the training measures will increase from 81 thousand to 300 thousand people.
In 2020, the following activities are planned to improve tax and customs administration:
During the reporting period, the regions are listed targeted transfers in the amount of 1 trillion 71 billion tenge.
over the past 3 years, there has been a positive trend in the payment of wage arrears.
the share in the total cargo turnover of the Caspian Sea increased from 21% to 30%.
to date, the state corporation provides citizens with 648 (89.6%) types of public services.
In the draft budget for 2020, the share of social spending will increase to 47%.
the indicator of local roads in good and satisfactory condition is planned to be increased to 71%.
implementation of these projects will create an additional 6-7 thousand permanent jobs over 2 years.
According to the results of the competition, sewing machines were presented to the 25 best participants.
163 construction companies, more than 6 thousand workers and 286 units of construction equipment are involved in the facilities.
According to the reports of akimats, more than 186 thousand places were created in 6 months.
About 5 thousand kilometers of roads will be covered by repair work annually. barmacs.
In 2020, work on automation of 90% of public services will be completed, "the minister said.
this work should be completed in time - by 2022, "said A. Mamin.
Since 2017, the project "Free services for all" has been implemented.
the production of non-ferrous metals has maintained a high growth rate of 18%.
In general, social spending in 2019 was increased to 7.1 trillion tenge. in general , in 2019 social spending increased to 7.1 trillion tenge .
Work on the reconstruction of 67 multi-storey buildings should be completed before August 20.
the working group analyzed more than 18 thousand proposals of the pedagogical community as a whole.
6.6 million people or 85% of the country's rural population live in these villages.
An additional 50 billion tenge will be allocated for 30 billion tenge in 2020, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
the sectors of Pavlodar, Mangistau, Aktobe and Akmola regions have been restored by 99%.
To date, 172 houses have been completed, 107 houses will be built by the end of this year.
To date, the time of inspection of vehicles has decreased by almost 4 times.
over the past five years, the number of residents of large cities of Kazakhstan has increased by 15%.
Since 2017, he has been the First Deputy Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
From 2005 to 2018, the volume of financial investments of France in the Kazakh economy exceeded $15 billion.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the country's GDP reached 28%.
in all regions of the "connection point" sectors, more than 13 million citizens were sensitized.
The total inflow of direct investments to Kazakhstan from 2005 to 2018 amounted to $40 billion.
By 2025, the country needs to move to the category of low-risk countries.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan was presented the draft of the future multidisciplinary regional medical center for 610 beds.
The average annual growth in imports will be at the level of 2.5% and will amount to $37 billion in 2024.
if necessary, it is possible to increase production volumes to 850 thousand tons per year.
at the final stage, grain harvesting in Zhambyl (99.6%) and Turkestan (100%) regions.
6,000 large families will be provided with housing annually.
This year, together with the National Bank, it is planned to increase the volume of lending to 15 thousand cars.
the volume index for construction in January-October 2019 amounted to 112.7%.
In general, by 2025 it is planned to increase the share of tourism in the country to 8%.
At least 90 thousand jobs will be created, the number of hunters will be reduced.
Pensions and benefits for 3 million 530 thousand people were paid from the budget, "said A. smailov.
143 services or 19.8% are only available in paper format.
at the local level, they were developed by 97.3% or by 1 trillion 222 billion tenge.
29 out of 92 approved projects provide for the creation of new industries, 63 - the expansion of existing industries.
Due to the disagreement of the owners, repair work is not carried out in 34 houses.
The volume of investments in projects implemented in Kazakhstan is $750 million.
for the remaining 3 per cent of the population, satellite technology is available.
Today, more than 30% of the country's active population is engaged in small and medium-sized businesses.
These 3,000 megawatts will be gradually built and incorporated into the country's energy balance.
Chamber control in the amount of 4.5 trillion tenge covered 676 thousand public procurement.
The volume of financing of the agro-industrial complex by the holding in 2018 amounted to 400.1 billion tenge.
Work on social infrastructure is carried out at 66 facilities of health care, education, sports.
this year, microcredit costs have been increased to 19 billion tenge with coverage of 85 thousand people.
According to the audit results, financial violations totaling 121 billion tenge were revealed.
The Prime Minister built a capsule at the construction site of a multidisciplinary regional hospital with 630 beds.
This year it is planned to ensure the opening of traffic for 198 km.
To date, 191 organizations have been involved in the reconstruction of residential buildings.
It is expected that the station will serve up to 10 thousand passengers per day.
about 300 thousand people will be additionally covered by short-term vocational training.
they are automatically assigned a maximum score of 40 points.
the minimum speed requirement was 10 Mbps.
more than 5 thousand workers continue to work in the Arysov housing fund.
investments increased in agriculture (61.4%), construction (46.3%), trade (23%) and industry (18.9%).
start-up business this year "is planned to reach 75 thousand people.
In 2018, Kazakhstan took 21st place in the world ranking for mobile subscribers.
we select 300 people in reserve and do some work with them. we will recruit 300 people who will be in reserve , and with whom we will carry out certain work .
In general, to support students, the head of state instructed to increase the size of the scholarship by 30%.
in the construction materials industry, the highest indicator in Aktobe and Pavlodar region is 19%.
So, this year buckwheat has risen in price due to a reduction in sown areas in the country by 30%.
All types of work (repair, construction and reconstruction) are carried out on 30 thousand km of local roads.
investments in fixed assets increased 1.5 times in 18 large cities.
As part of the senior seniors' instrument, 215 expert missions were organized.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan met with the heads of 41 large Turkish companies - current and potential investors in the economy of Kazakhstan.
today, on domestic routes, 8 airlines operate 54 domestic flights.
In 2019, it is planned to implement 10 investment projects totaling 10.3 billion tenge.
Oil production will increase from 90 million tons in 2020 to 100 million tons in 2024.
Due to the disagreement of the owners, repairs in 34 houses have not yet begun.
R. According to Dalenov, 421 billion tenge is provided for the next stage of the program.
This year, targeted social assistance is assigned to 400 thousand families or about 2 million Kazakhstanis. this year , targeted social assistance reached 400 thousand families or about 2 million kazakhstanis .
As of September 13, 2019, 32.5 billion tenge was used in the republic and 450 microcredits were issued.
The head of state supported young people and declared 2020 the year of volunteers.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, in 2019 the championship will be held for the 16th time.
A total of 197 construction companies and 250 pieces of equipment operate in 17 sectors of the city.
35 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of this plan, "he said.
A total of 194 construction companies and 245 pieces of equipment operate in 17 sectors.
The project was launched in 2017.
14.9 billion tenge was transferred to the regions, 14.8 billion tenge or 99% was spent.
all audiences are 100% equipped with devices and video cameras that slow down cellular communication. all audiences are 100 % equipped with cellular suppression devices and video cameras .
So, for 10 months of this year targeted social assistance was paid in the amount of more than 200 billion tenge.
the growth of state budget revenues during the reporting period amounted to 114.5%, the republican budget - 118% and the local budget - 106%.
4 . Administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the apparatus of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan within one month:
This year it is planned to produce 9 thousand transformers, which is 35% of production growth.
plant capacity - 300 thousand tons of methanol and 600 thousand tons of olefin per year.
Of these, 104 projects worth 50 billion tenge were approved, 179 projects are being considered in banks.
At a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Askar Mamaev, the republican budget for 2019 was clarified.
75 projects are under implementation, 68 are under development.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan took part in the opening of the new school-gymnasium No. 87 in the city of Askar, Mother Nur-Sultan.
By 2025, it is necessary to develop new programs for the development of territories, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This year, in accordance with the plan, it is planned to create another 54 thousand jobs.
Since the opening, assistance has been provided to 15 children with musculoskeletal disorders.
lamb 150 thousand tons, pork 86 thousand tons, respectively.
this year the action starts a month ago, that is, from July 1. this year the action will be launched a month earlier , from july 1 .
expenditures of the state budget during the reporting period were executed by 8 trillion 910 billion tenge, i.e. 98.3%.
At the same time, over the past 14 years, German companies have invested about $5 billion in Kazakhstan.
all educational facilities were planned to be prepared before September 1.
By the end of this year, 20 billion tenge will be additionally allocated by the order of the akimat.
The top 500 included 2 universities: Gumilev IC (418), M. Auezov (491).
Work on the restoration of all 66 social facilities must be completed before August 20.
8 months left before the Olympic Games, our athletes won 21 licenses. there are 8 months left before the olympic games , and our athletes have won 21 licenses .
fines and penalties in the amount of about 2 billion tenge were written off from them.
Real wool growth is projected at 4.1% in 2020.
For 9 months of this year, trade with the EU amounted to about $24 billion.
production in agriculture increased by 13% and amounted to 63.6 billion tenge.
the burden on meat processing enterprises will increase by 30%.
According to the plan, 664 state bodies should be included by the end of the year.
most of these 300 builders working during construction are Kazakhstanis.
therefore, our racial regime was formed in 2010, when it was streamlined.
It is planned to allocate 2 billion tenge a year or 150 billion tenge for 7 years from the republican budget.
of which 15% are young people, 34% are women.
at the same time, a new state program for the development of health care until 2025 is being developed.
13 primary health-care centres will be built from the budget.
To date, Kazakhstan has established flights with 26 states on 99 international routes. today , kazakhstan has air links with 26 foreign countries on 99 international routes .
exports will grow by an average of 2.9% and reach $63 billion in 2024.
In general, by the end of the year more than 7 thousand families will be provided.
85 billion tenge will be allocated through local executive bodies within 5 years.
The first president of Kazakhstan - President AD Nazarbayev declared 2019 the Year of Youth in Kazakhstan.
the total investment in the construction and equipment of the enterprise amounted to $94 million.
Last year, bilateral trade increased by 13% to $18.5 billion.
During the meeting, the results of socio-economic development of the country according to the results of 7 months of this year were discussed.
analysis showed that the correlation for many products is more than 90%.
In November 2018, the head of state launched the work of the ahko exchange.
To date, 147 billion tenge has been allocated from the budget to support this category of compatriots.
In the future, from 2023, 5g will be introduced in all regional centers of the country.
For 8 months, gross domestic product growth accelerated to 4.3%.
From 2016 to 2018, the akimats built 238 facilities for typical projects.
of which only 200 people are specialists from China.
expenditures of the republican budget amounted to 8 trillion 541 billion tenge or 99.8%.
According to the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development of Kazakhstan, 33 houses will be reconstructed.
the republican budget for these purposes from 2020 to 2022 provides 250 billion tenge.
costs per 1 insured person with the introduction of mams will increase by 57%.
about 60 million pieces of brick are produced annually at the plant.
More than 100 thousand people will receive an additional 14 days of rest.
Since 2017, the "open sky" regime has been introduced in the city of nur-sultan.
in this regard, expenditures in this area were increased by 217 billion tenge.
1 . completion of all residential buildings in the city within a month;
By 2025, we plan to bring this figure to 35%.
the level of medical equipment will increase from 70% to 73%.
design capacity of the metallurgical plant - 250 thousand tons of steel billet per year.
more than half of them or 4 trillion 856 billion tenge are allocated to the social sphere.
poultry meat production is planned to increase by more than 3 times.
Last year, the fund's net profit increased by 88% compared to 2017. last year , the fund managed to increase net profit by 88 percent to the level of 2017 .
the indicator of 9 months of this year is higher than the annual indicator of last year.
total pork production is planned to increase by 2 times.
More than a thousand km of intra-village streets will be built and repaired.
at least 370,000 new jobs will be created this year.
about 7 thousand new jobs in the field of tourism will be created here.
the cost of commercial loans for construction companies decreased by an average of 50%.
the capacity of terminals on the border with China has been increased to 40 million tons per year.
In 11 regions there is a republican center "Daryn."
terminal capacity will be 3 million passengers per year.
Traffic on the 763 km road will be opened in 2020.
In order to develop small air lines, it is planned to build 16 air harbors.
At the same time, the interval in the trains ranged from 3 minutes to 10 minutes.
More than 40% of the foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan is in the EU.
the total area of ​ ​ the building is more than 49 thousand square meters.
the city of Shymkent was declared the cultural capital of the CIS in 2020.
budget projects are conditionally divided into 3 categories for repayment from the budget:
The comprehensive plan provides for the implementation of 89 measures in 10 areas.
industrial production for 8 months of this year accelerated to 3.2%.
in the domestic market, 8 Kazakhstani airlines fly on 54 routes.
150 billion tenge is allocated for these purposes within three years.
Since 2015, the level of urbanization has increased to 58.2%.
The average annual wool growth rate over 5 years will be 4.4%.
Before the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, we had 45 licenses.
We assumed that young people will spend about 60 thousand tenge on their needs.
In 2020, expenses are planned in the amount of 12.7 trillion tenge.
From January 1, 2020, the portal is planned to be introduced everywhere.
7.4 tenge of private investments were attracted by 1 tenge of state funds.
Today, Kazakhstani businessmen are developing 100 projects in the field of tourism.
controversial issues are being worked out together with representatives of akimats fixed in 17 sectors.
Since 2017, a decrease in commodity-specific subsidies in crop production began.
to date, the volume of savings is more than 130 billion tenge, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
150 billion tenge was allocated for 18 thousand loans, "said the chairman of the committee.
For 18 months, the bank has invested more than $1 billion in the economy of Kazakhstan in 43 projects.
Now 31 8 thousand microcredits worth 48% billion tenge have been issued.
This year, 532 thousand people were trained, according to the plan - 462,846 people.
70 projects for 28 thousand places, "said A. Aimagambetov.
By 2021, work is underway to bring the level of localization to 50%.
By 2025, we must enter the top 40 countries of the world.
This is evidenced by the fact that about 45% of the republican budget is directed to the social sphere.
graduates of the courses received 957 microcredit for the implementation of projects.
The completion of the project in 2022 will increase profit to 12 million tons per year.
This year, 12 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for 44.7 thousand microcredits.
According to the results of 2018, trade between our countries exceeded $1.9 billion.
During the years of independence, the total inflow of direct investment from the Netherlands to Kazakhstan exceeded $92 billion.
in Ottawa, expenses for 1 km amounted to $120 million, in Seoul - $110 million, in Dubai - $150 million.
In 2019, 37.9 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of 18 projects.
this figure has recently increased by 26%, "said B. Saparbayev.
In July 2019, an additional 20 billion tenge was allocated for 5 thousand microcredits.
Industry growth has been ensured in 14 regions, "the Prime Minister said.
By 2025, the country should enter the top 40 countries of the world.
At the end of 2018, bilateral trade amounted to $6.5 billion.
59.8 billion tenge (72%) was allocated for lending to rural settlements.
over the past 7 years, the number of labor conflicts has decreased by 3 times.
Since 1993, Kazakhstan has invested more than $8 billion in 240 projects.
We plan to provide 900 apartments, "Daniel recalled.
Bilateral trade is expected to exceed $3 billion by the end of this year.
As of July 1, 924 apartments were issued, "said the Minister of Industry and Infrastructure Development.
Compared to last year, the number of consultations increased by 3 million services.
expenditures of the republican budget amounted to 9 trillion 565 billion tenge or 99.2%.
and 13 mobile employment centres.
In the period from 2020 to 2021, it is planned to complete 3.8 thousand km of roads.
this will increase the salary of health workers by 30%.
8 . modernization and reconstruction of gas and water supply systems is planned;
It is planned to reconstruct and build 127 km of engineering networks.
It is expected that by the end of the year up to 1 million boxes will be transported.
also 5 times the size of dividends in monetary terms.
As a result, violations were not made in the amount of 215 billion tenge.
In the coming years, it is planned to increase trade to $5 billion.
according to camera control reports, an additional 177 billion tenge was accrued.
Over the past 7 years, transit passenger traffic has increased 45 times.
As a result, 10 rural reserves and 23 settlements will be covered.
of which 615 contracts worth 1.6 trillion tenge were concluded.
the proportion of local roads in good and satisfactory condition was 68%.
debt of 65 enterprises at the stage of rehabilitation and bankruptcy is 691 million tenge.
500 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes for the next 3 years.
there are 821 colleges in the country with a contingent of 488.7 thousand people.
The repair covered 4.3 thousand km of roads totaling 156 billion tenge.
the share of tourism and services will grow by 2%.
In the new academic year, schools plan to accept more than 3 million children.
more than 14 million such certificates were issued annually to citizens. every year , citizens received more than 14 million such certificates .
So, during the reporting period, an audit of budget funds in the amount of 719 billion tenge was carried out.
An important international event was held in Berlin, the capital of Germany, on October 7.
The plan was completed by 2.7% or 73 billion tenge.
today, more than 77 thousand patients from around the world arrived at the clinic.
At the end of 2019, the fleet of aircraft will be 41 units.
Products and services worth 50 billion tenge were also produced.
By the end of the year, it is planned to open 13 more schools.
In 2019 alone, 21 contracts worth 23.5 billion tenge were concluded.
The domestic airline market in Kazakhstan in 2010 was completely streamlined. the domestic air traffic in kazakhstan was completely deregulated in 2010 .
According to the results of seven months, production amounted to 94%
on average, in these regions the grain yield was 19 c/ha.
This year it is planned to put into operation 6 thousand apartments for waiting lists.
In this ranking, Kazakhstan took 59th place in 2018.
According to him, today in Kazakhstan 682 km of roads are toll.
Over three years, loans worth 35 billion tenge were issued.
own revenues of local budgets were executed by 1 trillion 659 billion tenge.
they correspond to the country's strategic development plan until 2025.
in the Karaganda region, it is necessary to update the stastus of another 32 thousand people.
Currently, the average salary in the country is 182 thousand tenge.
Compared to the same period last year, revenues increased by 119 billion tenge.
the total amount of investments attracted by enterprises exceeds 11 billion tenge.
Compared to the same period last year, revenues increased by 140 billion tenge.
increase in production to 90 million units.
and in cities the average amount of loans is 11 million tenge.
The survey is conducted in 6 thousand settlements of the country.
planned production capacity - 3000 tons of radiator per year.
to date, a comprehensive privatization plan has been completed by 91%.
the total prize fund of the project is 15 million tenge.
A government decree on the second package of amendments was adopted on June 28.
the parties agreed to hold the x meeting of the committee in 2021 in Kazakhstan.
as part of the infrastructure factor, the ministry has 8 indicators.
In order to develop small air lines, the construction of 16 airfields is planned.
He began his career in 1997 as a research trainee in the Kazakh SSR.
at the same time, electricity consumption will decrease by 20%.
the city is restoring 7.7 thousand builders in 17 sectors.
9 Kazakhstani airlines have permission to fly to the countries of the European Union.
This measure will save about $40 million (15 billion tenge).
316 business objects have already been launched.
This year, more than 25 thousand people were employed in the region.
the average amount of loans in rural areas is 4 million tenge.
thousands of self-employed and unemployed will become individual entrepreneurs.
In 2009, a law on renewable energy was adopted.
An additional 221 billion tenge was accrued, 175 billion tenge was recovered.
In 2018, the German concern daimler ag (mercedes benz) became the shareholder of the company.
the presidential youth personnel reserve will include 300 young specialists.
The forum has been held within the walls of excavations since 2013.
As a result, more than 18 thousand student places were created.
The facility is planned to be commissioned by the end of 2020.
Currently, there are 34 bills in Parliament's portfolio.
the yield of these crops is more than 20 tons per hectare.
Compared to the five months of 2018, the implementation of expenses improved.
There are also 316 repaired commercial facilities in the city.
in other villages, the Internet will be held during 2020.
The work of 11 equipment, 2 production facilities and 7 organizations was suspended.
the tenge exchange rate remained at the level of the end of 2018.
200 local doctors take advanced training courses abroad.
As a result, the route network will increase to 54 directions.
- May 11, 2020 from Monday to Friday May 8, 2020;
construction teams demolish 155 houses.
Since 2005, Switzerland has invested more than $24 billion in the Kazakh economy.
- from Sunday 5 January 2020 to Friday 3 January 2020;
2 million people are covered in this direction, "Saparbayev said.
In the first half of 2019, investment growth amounted to 72%.
this year this figure should reach 30%, "said B. Saparbayev.
As part of the new stage of social modernization, 18 activities in IV areas are provided.
In total, 20 companies, 200 builders and 50 units of special equipment were involved.
In total, 346 items from the funds of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan are presented at the exhibition.
tariff growth will be from 10% to 20%.
In total, 207 items from the funds of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be presented at the exhibition.
At the end of 2018, economic growth amounted to 4.1%.
In total, 292 items from the funds of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan were presented at the exhibition.
920 applications worth 9.9 billion tenge were received for consideration.
expenditures of local budgets amounted to 4 trillion 165 billion tenge. the expenditures of local budgets amounted to 4 trillion 165 billion tenge .
73 additional facilities were built at the expense of the budget and private capital.
this general platform will save up to 2 billion tenge of budget funds.
funding increased by 9 times. saparbayev.
industrial production for 9 months increased by 3.3%.
to date, 33 thousand people or 44% of the plan have been trained.
previously this time was 24 hours. smailov.
2) take other measures to implement this decree.
this is 1.8 times more than in 2018.
In the first quarter, their number increased by 3 thousand people.
over the years, mutual trade has reached $50 billion.
this is 61 billion tenge more than the plan or 101.3%.
By the end of the year, it is planned to commission 13 million square meters. m
Kazakhstan took 71st place in this ranking in 2018. according to the results of 2018 , kazakhstan took 71st place in this rating .
For 8 months of 2019, the growth of the economy of Kazakhstan amounted to 4.3%.
it is planned to complete this work by the end of 2020.
In this regard, the work of the headquarters will last until August 20.
the third - with a salary of over 100 thousand tenge.
the level of urbanization is planned to reach 62%. we plan to achieve an urbanization level of up to 62 % .
398 citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan signed a complete package of documents.
By the end of the year, 13 more private schools will be opened.
the annual plan for the republic is 13 million square meters.
the share of hatred in electricity production is 2%.
163 billion tenge were restored during the audit.
In 2016-2018, more than 34 million square meters. m of housing.
expenditures of local budgets amounted to 4 trillion 705 billion tenge.
next year, 100 megawatts of this station will be fully operational.
1 billion tenge of private investments will be attracted for these purposes.
122 thousand people study at colleges by work qualifications.
the second - the age of the candidate should not exceed 29 years.
work is underway to eliminate another 27 certificates.
Regular flights with 9 global financial centers have been established.
Kazakhstan has been an official member of the WTO since 2015.
From 2020, compulsory social health insurance will be introduced.
to date, 75% of fuel has been made in boiler houses.
During the reporting period, the planned funds were used 100%.
these goods accounted for about 63% of the increase in prices.
893 aircraft are registered in the state register of aircraft.
gross agricultural products will increase by 34%.
In 15 regions, the volume of industrial production increased (b. atamkuls)
apartments are provided for 5 years without the right to buy back.
real monetary incomes of the population will grow by 25%.
This year, 9 labor conflicts occurred in the republic.
one of the affected sectors includes 483 houses. one of the worst-affected sectors includes 483 homes .
the average salary of the enterprise is 165 thousand tenge.
Child Protection Vision 2030. the concept of protecting children until 2030 will be developed .
the average salary per family is 105 thousand tenge.
This year we see an increase of another 40%.
As a result of violations, 379 billion tenge was not allowed.
Now in 258 apartments restoration work is underway. now the restoration is being carried out in 258 apartments .
According to this rating, the country rose 16 positions compared to 2015.
In 2018, the German concern became a shareholder in the company.
in the nur-sultan, costs per 1 km are optimized to $68 million.
Work is planned to be completed by the end of 2019.
the republican budget received 4 trillion 817 billion tenge of revenue.
in total, the Deputy Prime Minister received 12 citizens.
The volume of investments amounted to 406 billion tenge, "said A. Mamin.
The number of employees in LLP is 520 people.
Following the meeting, 12 documents were signed.
78 billion tenge was paid for six months.
Since 2014, the sector has been actively developing.
in Pavlodar wholesale tariffs are sold at 999 tenge.
In total, about 2,500 listeners took part in 122 meetings.
In 2018, the company produced 37% of all road bitumen in Kazakhstan.
To date, 676 residential buildings have been renovated.
Thus, the budget received 8 trillion 407 billion tenge.
282 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the implementation of the program.
assets of the national fund amounted to 26 trillion 320 billion tenge.
At the beginning of the 2019-2020 school year, 47 new private schools were opened.
the republican budget received 4 trillion 363 billion tenge of revenue.
In 2018, bilateral trade increased by 26%.
We are private partners, the contract is concluded for 14 years. we are a private partner , the contract is signed for 14 years .
expenditures of the republican budget amounted to 7 trillion 725 billion tenge.
The Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure Development is drafting 3 bills.
last year alone, this figure decreased by 5%.
every year, 6,000 families will be covered by social assistance.
Then, over 25 years, 56 thousand loans will be allocated.
10 . Within 2 weeks, the export of weapons will begin.
As a result, more than 22 thousand people were employed.
70% of expenses will be financed from the republican budget.
building area - more than 16 thousand square meters.
(ak "kazakhtelecom" - 29, ak "transtelecom" - 148).
To do this, we allocate 50 billion tenge annually until 2025. for this , we allocate 50 billion annually until 2025 .
improved infrastructure for about a thousand rural residents.
Since the opening of the center, 263 operations have been carried out.
A total of 191 construction companies operate in 17 sectors.
terminal capacity is 3 million passengers per year.
about 200 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes.
6 points out of 14 points of the road map have been completed.
this is 4 times the current level of income.
The facility was commissioned on June 22, 2018.
6 thousand apartments are commissioned annually.
Another 41 construction companies joined the large-scale work.
of this amount, 738 billion tenge falls on taxes.
daily freight traffic is 200 cars.
Initially, this indicator was planned for 2021.
revealed financial irregularities totaling 174 billion tenge.
In total, it is planned to cover 38 thousand people.
it exists in 14 regions and three cities.
A total of 252 billion tenge was allocated for these events.
In 2024, it will reach 4.7%.
The project consists of 81 activities in 5 areas.
the new bridge will connect 10 settlements.
Thus, exports to these countries increased 22 times.
Financial violations in the amount of 48 billion tenge were revealed.
The event was attended by more than 5 thousand people.
By 2050, we must reach 50%.
Companies carry passengers in 78 directions.
70% of them will be aimed at supporting young people.
80% of them are employed by local residents.
Sector No. 2 is being restored by Pavlodar region.
its commissioning is scheduled for June 2020.
To date, 480 professional standards have been developed.
62 objects were put up for auction during the reporting period.
Completion of construction is scheduled for March 2021.
a total of 59 airlines operate in the country.
Since 2006 - in the diplomatic service.
Last year, trade amounted to $3 billion.
The head of state declared 2020 the year of the volunteer.
2 Kazakh-Chinese consortia passed the qualification selection.
it will focus on the price of oil in the amount of $55.
export volume is 95%. the export share is 95 % .
production capacity is 71 thousand cars per year.
we have Kazakhstan content - 100%. our local content is 100 % .
694 billion tenge was covered by auditing events. audit activities covered 694 billion tenge .
this is 2 times more than last year.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of our fruitful cooperation.
In 2019, 49 new buses were purchased.
the audit covered 292 billion tenge of budget funds.
citizens allocate a budget in the amount of 500 million tenge.
today 33 thousand people are covered by training.
the average execution percentage is 50%.
In 9 regions, positive dynamics are observed. positive dynamics are observed in 9 regions .
1 . "single window" mja;
the process was reduced from 5 day by 1 hours.
Financial irregularities worth 194 billion tenge were revealed.
of which 60% are private.
The construction of the facility is planned to be completed in 2022.
15 workshops have already been held this quarter.
today the readiness of the facility is 70%.
At the first stage, the construction of 175 facilities is planned. at the first stage , the construction of 175 facilities is planned .
of which 44 are international, 34 are domestic routes.
433 residential buildings are being reconstructed.
a rating is generated every 3 years.
we will continue the work we have begun in 2020.
project cost - $145 million;
grants will be awarded by August 25th.
Additionally, the budget received 31 billion tenge.
88 billion tenge of them came to the budget.
246 thousand services were provided this year.
100% integrated by digitalization.
Currently, work has been completed at 45 sites.
To date, 62 facilities have been completed.
a total of 18 thousand loans will be allocated.
4 . digitalization of financial processes.
2019 is the year of youth.
interest rate - 2%.
7 thousand families in 40 years.
140 countries will take part in the ranking.
The project will be completed in 2022.
The movement will be opened in 2021.
The index was developed in 2003.
failure to perform - 29 billion tenge.
3 . "return" state;
2 . "package solutions";
zip code 161200
Plan for 2020
bsn (bin)  100440016000
