The area of ​ ​ 0.27 hectares amounted to 60 jobs.
drawing from personal archive
drawing from personal archive
drawing from personal murahat
goats Evgeny Alexandrovich
Platons arthur stanislavovich
snapshot from personal archive
photos from personal archive
kusain friendly
picture taken from personal archive
picture taken from personal archive
buckwheat anuaryza
aisina myra arapkiza
sculpture wing
Kesebaevskaya shop
Kurman Izadadian
Veronskaya Maya Stanislavovna
ixanova gulnara mustakhimovna
you are always ready and must have five guns.
Now we don't have to live in horror when they go abroad and catch me.
Governor of Omsk region V. Nazarov, in turn, noted that the volume of trade with Kazakhstan is constantly growing, and noted that its basis is formed from agricultural and manufacturing products.
kanybekov saken asembekovich
bopazov marat daribecula
zharasov zhanat abdullaevich
nurkina aigul kabdeshovna
karataev fakhriddin abdinabievich
Poland is developing alternative energy sources.
golovkin gennady gennadievich
dyachenko Sergey Alexandrovich
mucanov abai kuspanula
Omar saparkhan
the need to modernize the UN Charter while maintaining the basic basis of international law.
Zvolsky Sergey Adamovich
kulagin sergey vitalyevich
mynbai darkhan kamzabekula
dulatbek nurlan deputy
all this is done by the golden hand of the worker.
During the meeting, issues of phased implementation of transport policy were discussed.
photo from the official site ksi
bizhanov flower kadyrzhanka
ospanov baurzhan kenesbekovich
members of parliament can receive a mandate of confidence from the people.
In addition, persons released from places of deprivation of liberty and serving in the probation service were invited to the job fair in order to facilitate employment.
akhmetov danial kenzhetauli
dugalova asylbekovna
Taking part in the opening ceremony of the new facility, the head of the region noted that the main goal is to provide the population with high-quality bakery products.
nigmatulan zayrollaula
Omarbekov genre anuarbekovna
German mukhtar tildabekovich
oleynik Vasily Ivanovich
from a special archive
he noted the importance of a public institution to ensure stable communication with the administrative team.
charm happy
In turn, the Iranian side expressed its readiness to invest in the exploration of polymetals, copper and iron.
a regional working group for holding the holiday in the region and a regional action plan for organizing and holding were developed.
the current foreign policy situation gives impetus to the adoption of this decision, since it plays a large role.
Kurtai alimentary
musyrman caribai imanjanula
also in the lobby of the central building of the Ministry of Internal Affairs there are separate mailboxes for appeals, which will be provided directly for consideration by the public council.
aronova irina petrovna
Klimenko Ivan Ivanovich
ospans strong sericulus
The Secretary of State also noted that the price remains a major investor in Kazakhstan.
participants discussed the stages and features of the current election campaign, the procedure for counting votes based on the results of voting, the election of deputies of the Majilis parliament elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, and the procedure for holding elections of deputies of maslikhats.
Speaking at the signing ceremony of the memorandum, the Mayor focused on the fact that the anuar of Kumpekeyev, stability and productivity of production at the city's enterprises, the preservation of jobs contribute to the development of the region's economy.
According to the decree, the elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
wealth of Batal well-being
altaev nurzhan baurzhanovich
In this regard, the commission recommended that the ministries of national economy and agriculture, entities of the quasi-public sector, local executive bodies conduct an internal analysis of corruption challenges.
among the candidates are the rector of the Kazakh Agrotechnical University named after Seifullina Akmbek Kurishbayev, the rector of the Eurasian National University named after L. Gumileva, as well as among the candidates - doctors, entrepreneurs, school directors, public figures.
Special attention was paid at the meeting to the local police service, created on behalf of the president for the implementation of five institutional reforms.
the session also discussed the definition of market price support criteria.
only on the basis of such verification measures can one determine the level of combat training, the effectiveness of the actions of commanders in leading to a high level of combat readiness and concentration in the established territory.
The transition from a five-day system to a tripartite process will increase citizens' access to the court and simplify the trial, "said A. Sarenbaev.
Elishka Zhigova also told Czech businessmen about the opportunities of Pavlodar region and invited them to the investment format, which will be held in our region in the near future.
in a short time and in several months last year, they gathered all forces and adopted more than 50 laws and codes.
On March 14, an exhibition of national crafts "Tradition Day" and meetings with the participation of craftsmen will take place.
In September 2015, on the Astana-Schuchinsk highway, asphalt concrete and cement concrete coatings were tested with waterproof and grinding compositions, "the report said.
Akhmetov visiting figure
balian zagip yahia
abdir nurlan majitovich
According to experts, by 2030 the number of people employed in the economy will be 9.4 million people, which is 11% more.
27 employees have already begun work in kindergarten, 8 of them are highly qualified specialists, she added.
completion of repair and restoration work on the rehabilitation of the silicon plant served as the basis for the further development of the silicon industry in Kazakhstan, in the future of entering the production of beam silicon.
on the territory of the stadium "Astana Arena," the monument "Қazaқstan eli," the park "millstones" and "students," the square of the theater "youth," as well as in the Michurin and railway villages, residential areas "eastern ilinka," "suburban," "production," on the square in front of the state theater "naz."
let the country be calm and calm!
zhailganova anar nuralyn
tleuchan bekbolat kanayula
we very much believe that we will be useful for the owner.
The interlocutors discussed issues of expanding cooperation between the countries participating in the investigation, as well as issues of combating terrorism and extremism in the framework of the investigation.
In the second five-year plan it is planned to implement 8 projects totaling 69.3 billion tenge with the creation of 374 jobs.	in view of the limited time i 'll tell you about one of them .	0,13
The length of the line "from" of the Kazakh-Chinese main gas pipeline is 1303 km. is.
Omarbek star
According to the head of state, control over the implementation of state programs will be strengthened in the country, reforms aimed at improving the investment climate will continue.
nurmanbetova jamila nusipzhanovna
their covers and samples are sent to the necessary polling stations.
I, as an ordinary citizen and a representative of a non-governmental organization, support this decision, I am sure that other citizens will support this decision.
In January-October 2015, mechanical engineering produced products worth 15082.57 million tenge, "the Governor of the region said.
According to the time schedule, participants aged 18 years with a weight of up to 60 kg, up to 74 kg, up to 82 kg, up to 90 kg, up to 100 kg, over 100 kg can participate in wrestling.
photo: author
now in a single-industry town compared to 2014, the coverage of preschool education and education for children aged 1 to 6 years increased from 55.3% to 57.6%.
Due to the time difference, our compatriots in Tokyo and Seoul began to vote first at 4.00 in the morning.
the most important thing that we pay attention to is the attention to young people left without the care of parents, orphans or orphans, "said the deputy chairman of the Zhas Otan residential complex, Aliya Baiganisova.
The Eurasian National University is working in the right direction today, it is working on introducing the results of scientific research of scientists and students into the educational process, creating research institutes and commercializing science.	i believe that this direction should become the impact in the activities of all the structures of our university .	0,14
Tickets can be obtained on the website, www.tickets.expo2017astana.com said the national company.
the instability of global and global markets requires a response to all strong crisis programmes.
we need a new mandate of confidence of the people in order to clearly carry out all our work aimed at overcoming the crisis, "said Bektayev.
we began our work as observers from the central library and controlled only the voting process. there are no violations .
that is, their task is to stimulate the development of private energy service companies to provide integrated energy saving services with reimbursement of their own costs and to obtain financial benefits from saving energy costs in practice. this internationally recognized mechanism will help to achieve the energy efficiency .
ashimbayev maulen sagathanula
imasheva snowflake valerievna
Nurgozhaevsky erball saparbayevich
abai tasbulates
Shchegelsky gleb anatolyevich
The institution, where all the conditions for raising and teaching children are created, has a music hall, a medical office, all the necessary toys.
amanjolov contracted Friday
dzhabagiev kozhakhan kokrekbaevich
Karakus flower girl
if possible, we will make every effort to get a majority of 98 deputy mandates at the meeting, "said A. Myrkhzakhmetov.
At the same time, according to Norasan Shimomura, Kazakhstan pays special attention to work at the domestic and national levels.
During the year, under the leadership of the federation, major republican and international competitions were held among amateurs and professionals. 2015 has become successful for us .
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
so that everyone has equal opportunities.
A separate center will be created for the interaction of state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and official participants, effective provision of state services by Kazakhstan, working on the same principle around the clock.
the exhibition is designed to show that everyone knows his last name, the history of his country, his native language, loves his nation - this is a sacred tribal duty.
the amount of funding will start from 4 thousand dollars.
many have the opinion that monkeys love bananas, but my alis (Javanese macaque) does not like banana at all.
now the volume of fertilizer production is 400 thousand tons per year, which does not correspond to the calculation of the potential of the agricultural complex and raw materials for fertilizers.
The plan was prepared with the aim of creating a legal basis for the practical implementation of the project.
this agreement is considered the second generation.
therefore, when implementing it, there is a need to support maritime operations, respectively, the creation of a separate fleet in Kazakhstan for these purposes.
technical equipment of the plant includes solving large-scale problems in the field of production of wheeled equipment for military and civilian purposes.
The Hungarian ambassador andras barani noted the great interest of his country in the field of aktobe.
In addition, it is planned to export 15% of domestic goods produced in the region.
A feature of the country is the creation of new industries and the expansion of industrial partnership on the market of the Eurasian Union with a population of 180 million people and a volume of trade with China of $110 billion, "said A. Mamin.
they:
life changes on the day.
murat baritovich railway workers
Because the transfer of such exhibits to the national museum is a guarantee that their names will not disappear, but will reach the younger generation, "said Deputy Director of the National Museum of Kazakhstan Zhaken Taymagambetov.
it is through this that a person conveys his game, passion, joy or disappointment.
In order to improve the health of mother and child, the center is constantly supported by the Governor's Office of the region.
circles of Kazakh and German.
that is, the role of parliament in Kazakh society is growing.
each of them developed professionally and socially, achieved high creative success, achieved success in work and life.
committee members noted that the establishment of such a body would ensure effective work.
Ukraine, like Kazakhstan, at one time abandoned its nuclear potential and faced the problem of non-compliance with international memoranda and agreements.
because without unity it is impossible to create a powerful economy, a prosperous state.
Recall, on January 13, proposals were made to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on early parliamentary elections and on holding maslikhats at all levels.
milk undergoes a heat treatment of 100 ° C.	all products are manufactured using the russian equipment , we process 6-10 tons of milk per day .	0,15
corruption is a crisis of values.	corruption is a crisis of values , born in the public consciousness through the prevalence of wealth over spiritual .	0,16
becturgans abdimanap elikbaevich	abdimanap bekturganov	0,16
mahambets mansurkhan mahambetovich	mansurhan makhambetov	0,16
He also wished success in the work of the bakery, which was put into operation on the eve of the 25th anniversary of the country's independence.	the mayor of the district wished success to the new plant .	0,16
since the Orthodox Church made a great contribution to strengthening peace and harmony in society.	s.kulagin noted that the orthodox church makes great contribution to the strengthening of peace and harmony in our society , the development of a beneficial dialogue between the state and the religious associations .	0,16
As you know, in order to implement the message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev of February 18, 2005 "Kazakhstan on the path of accelerated economic, social and political modernization," the task was set to provide public services to individuals and legal entities on the principle of "one window," - said D. Medetbekov.
Kainazarov valikhan anarbayevich
Belgibaevsky early aubakirovich
bull svetlana fedorovna
jamals amanzhan makarimovich
Sapar Aliyah
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
today we thank our ancestors who inherited this great land, such a country.
The EEC Board recommended that the EAEU countries take measures to improve the effectiveness of cooperation between national competent authorities in the field of consumer protection.
aidarbayev alik sericula
amirenov radash babayula
Kazan pavel olegovich
Khituovsky taras kiikbaevich
The event is one of the most massive and is aimed at involving an active part of the population - student youth in sports.
in Kazakhstan, the observation of the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for March 20, 2016, is carried out by a mission of three international organizations:
The average salary increased by 64%, "the article says.
The transition to such a stage of state construction is associated with five institutional reforms, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
Kasymgali kanatbek makhmudula
Since the beginning of the year, 2 general education schools have been commissioned in the city: a projected school with 1,200 seats in the batygai district and school No. 26, No. 37, No. 38 with 1,200 seats in the area of ​ ​ Hussein and Talala streets.
In addition, the Minister got acquainted with the progress of work of lotusorganicslc LLP on the production of organic fertilizers sold as part of the indexation map in Kazygurt district and the investor service sector.
during the meeting they discussed the creation of a common pharmaceutical market.
nksikbayev omarkhan nurtaevich
festive cultural and sporting events will be held on this day at the capital-baiterek monument and in the student park.
in addition, workshops and seminars were held.
this composition includes 450 citizens.
the facility successfully passed all technological tests.
food industry
In total, more than 100 thousand people will take part in the subbotnik, including about 4,000 enterprises and organizations, more than 200 health and education institutions, more than 130 state institutions, departments and national companies.
the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union provides for the implementation of a coherent policy in the field of consumer protection, aimed at creating equal conditions for the protection of their interests for citizens of member states.	the effective mechanisms protecting the consumers ' rights improve the sale services and goods quality ,  said ye.dossayev.
In general, elections are held at a good level, all processes are held in accordance with the law and there have been no violations. everything is going well .
at the same time, during the formation of this domestic agricultural sector, the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union became reliable partners.
It should be noted that until now, in 28 secondary schools of the city, the EU representative office in Kazakhstan, together with ambassadors and diplomats of EU member states, held lectures on the topic "Hour of the Day of Europe."
There are 138 States parties to the Code.
It is worth noting that the main task of the council of mothers is to realize the goals of kha.
today's agreement on financing the project we signed will provide the population with high-quality drinking water.	the governor also offered several projects : the reconstruction of the central boiler , the construction of a central boiler with heating networks in makinsk , bulandy districts and the construction of sanitation facilities with capacity of 50 thousand cubic meters / day .	0,17
In addition, the bill provides for the allocation of a quota for the employment of persons with disabilities, persons registered with the probation service, citizens released from places of deprivation of liberty and juvenile graduates of residential organizations, "said Birzhan nurymbetov.
The soil of the allotted territory is fertile and convenient for irrigation, "said Bakhytzhan Bayakhmetov.
duisebaevo Sunday
national anthem rk
nutebayev saken nuriula
drawing from personal archive
No test with our country is difficult.
bishimbayev kuandyk valikhanovich
he also noted that "the creation of a powerful financial center is one of the main conditions for ensuring the continued growth of the country's economy.
there were presented products of national production and facilities of the turbine business.
According to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, each house of parliament appoints 3 members of the Accounts Committee for monitoring the implementation of the republican budget for a period of 1 year. each chamber has a right to appoint a member of the accounts committee up to five years .
During the meeting, residents will be able to ask their questions and submit proposals for improving the work of the infrastructure in order to improve the quality and comfort of living in the city.
Of the 7 supported projects, 4 are projects of entrepreneurs of the Karmakshin region.
the competition is held in all territories of the Republic of Kazakhstan and can be participated in it by small business entities.
most of them are designed to create new technologies, in particular, mobile, multimedia, nano- and space technologies, cultural engineering, genetic engineering, searching for and discovering the energy of the future.
In addition, in the era of globalization in the new millennium, during the crisis and chaos that gripped the whole world, close importance was attached to the settlement of international relations, putting first of all the tranquility of an independent country, the well-being of the people. nowadays we witness positive changes in all spheres of life of our country .
mutual respect between each other, of course, requires both economic and socio-political literacy.
kozhakhmetov dreamed
sultans cordial sultanovich
Yakovleva Tatyana Ivanovna
68,843 residential facilities in the amount of 624.3 billion tenge; 35,871 non-residential facilities in the amount of 201.4 billion tenge, including 135.2 commercial facilities in the amount of 8,448 billion tenge; 32 shares of legal entities in the amount of 6.4 billion tenge; securities worth 4.2 billion tenge, the report said.
During the visit, the Ministry, akimat of Atyrau region, representatives of psa LLP and representatives of ncoc, who are operators of the project, visited the island "d" of the runaway field, as well as the islands "a" and the islands of satellites ers2, ers3, ers4.
The foundation of Copper Company LLP was laid in 2005.
after launching, the ship will be delivered to the customer through the Ural River to the facade, then to the factory cable bundle, sea and acceptance tests.
he also expressed confidence that the Turkmen pavilion will become the largest platform for visitors.
The potential of Kazakhstan as a member has great potential, "said E. Zhalmukhanov.
this will strengthen the international situation of Kazakhstan, strengthen bilateral cooperation with foreign countries, "he said.
the cost of their rental will be significantly lower than the rental housing with the right to buy back in the future.
Daurenbaev amangeldinsky
eralia zhumashula
Koshanov erlan jacanula
spatial bacterial makenul
Aliyev citizen photographed
photographed by a citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of alims
Deputy General Director of Abiyur Alshumbayev LLP and Deputy General Director of Peleng JSC Sergey Litvyakov signed a memorandum of understanding at the site of the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2016."
Recall that in January 29, the XVII Extraordinary Congress of the Nur Otan Party was held in the capital under the chairmanship of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
for example, young people have the right to acquire knowledge from studs, but in most cases we have received extremist and terrorist ideology from Eastern guides. we close some websites .
this applies to the improvement and development of infrastructure.
such a project is being implemented for the first time in Central Asia and will allow the creation of a joint high-yield enterprise that provides progressive achievements in the defense and engineering industries.
someone who works well receives a large salary.
Governor of the region N.Nogayev noted that thanks to the wise policy of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in international relations there are great opportunities for the implementation of effective investment proposals.
As M. Nteshev noted, in general, the adoption of these measures is aimed at providing people who have come to work.
it discussed the prospects for cooperation with the south-eastern countries of Asia, issues of creating a free trade zone.
As of March 25 of this year, 24 objects have been put up for auction, of which 17 objects have been sold, "the report said.
The letter spells out issues of bilateral cooperation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
The head of state noted the low unemployment rate among indicators of social development and the presence of 6 thousand vacancies.
student Karmu named after E. Barketova
opening the presentation, Deputy Acting Director of OGK Ilya Gurov stressed that the Russian geographical society comprehensively establishes cooperation with Kazakh colleagues and jointly implements many projects.
The head of state creates all conditions for monitoring the activities of state bodies over deputies, this is a step towards ordinary people, Secretary of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan Vladislav Kosarev said in an interview with strategy2050.kz.
During the talks with the Deputy Head of Government, Minister of Economy, Education, Commerce and New Technologies of the Region of Wallonia Jean Claude, the prospects for development and the current state of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Belgium were discussed.
good connection with the local Governor's Office.
Currently, the mining and metallurgical complex is one of the most competitive and dynamically developing sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan. as for masalsky deposit , it is one of the top-10 deposits .
Various educational programs aimed at developing the capabilities of gifted children are tested at test sites.
An independent court would be the basis of transparency and justice.
in general, z. Shauken's work in the field of worldview was highly appreciated by the state.
control over the Diakb elections includes comprehensive monitoring of the garden.
becturgans erstan utegula
abdykalikova gulshara naushaevna
According to the legislation adopted by the Central Election Commission, each candidate registered as a deputy of the regional, capital and Almaty city maslikhats is allocated 245 thousand tenge from the budget for campaigning events and transport costs, and 153 thousand tenge is allocated to the candidate for deputies of the city and district maslikhats.
sufficient volume of anti-tuberculosis drugs, "the report said.
"If in 2009 there were 32 structures on such a list, then in 2010 - 47, and today - 92 terrorist organizations," he said.
performers represent the sonata of one of the most famous composers of the 19th century - Caesar franc la major.
Now the bill is being approved by state bodies, at the end of April 2016 it is planned to submit the bill to the government, and at the end of the year the bill will be adopted and will enter into force in 2017, he said.
If earlier the number of top managers decreased from 15 to 6, then at this stage it is planned to optimize the staffing table by 12%.
On January 18, the head of state held consultations with the chairmen of both houses of parliament and Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
a significant part of the expositions is presented by the Russian Federation indicating high-tech anti-tank missile systems and offensive weapons.
hardened kaumetova
At the same time, 19 joint ventures were created, 8 of which bought the share of the corporation.
utemis shavkhat anesovich
For five years, we negotiated with the couple.	this is the first resolution adopted at the initiative of kazakhstan on such an important issue as nuclear disarmament .	0,19
At the beginning of the year, the actual number of civil servants decreased by 106 people, "said the head of the department.
During the event, issues of implementation of the party's election platform in the development of regional budgets were discussed.
baiman askarovich from chess
Compared to the presidential election last year, the number of voters decreased by 6 thousand.
Singapore is a network of trade, logistics and financial hubs within many countries.	i am confident that our economy will benefit from the signing of the free trade agreement ( fta ) between the eaeu and singapore , which will remove all barriers and create a favorable and stable environment for the development of business and public relations .	0,19
A round table was held in Karlsruhe with the support of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Germany.	karlsruhe , with support of the chamber of commerce and the embassy of the republic of kazakhstan in germany hosted a  round table " " perspectives of german enterprises in the industrialization program of kazakhstan . "
kurmanbekova sulushash satbekovna
its main task is to optimize the judicial system.
As a rule, we have good business relations with the electoral authorities and all participants in the electoral process.
these reforms need legislative support, which will have a positive impact on the condition of Kazakhstanis.
Aruana-2010 within the framework of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" implemented a project for the construction of an elevator mill complex.
Currently, the center has signed an agreement with a large international consulting company.
so the money doesn't pay for it for nothing.
if a civil servant is held accountable, bonuses are not paid to him, "said a.saimov.
On the open day, the regional prosecutor i.a.imanov spoke about the activities of the law enforcement sector, the head of the regional department for youth policy noted that in our region, where the principle of meritocracy prevails, such events are important for students.
we changed the method of turning off flames, minimized the probability of accidents.
As the head of state noted, funds to reduce budget spending should be directed to projects that show results for the population, "said K. Tokayev.
Let's remind, today, on March 20, 2016 according to the decree of the head of state of January 20, 2016 "About abolition of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation and purpose of early elections of deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan" in all regions of the republic there takes place vote at elections of the deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan elected according to party lists.
quality products are always in demand.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
In connection with the world crisis, it is difficult to create a business, but we need to work on it, "the entrepreneur added.
its capacity is 180 mW and 450 gcal/s.
provision of patients with third-line drugs with wide drug resistance to tuberculosis in the civil sector amounted to 99.8% (standard - 85%).
trade unions have already been given the opportunity to participate in the process of preparing proposals for the creation of safety conditions for work.
main categories: protection of nuclear materials from theft.
A number of events are planned within the framework of the meeting, including a presentation on the topics "A Universal Agenda for Inclusive and Sustainable Growth: A Plan for 2030" and "Strengthening the Contribution to Trade and Investment for Inclusive Growth."
he aroused great interest among the participants of the "world. XXI century. "
5 cluster zones were identified in Almaty region.	as she reports , these are talgar-issyk , kapshagai , karadalinsky , raiymbek , alakol-zhetysu and eastern balkhash clusters .	0,20
Recall that in order to provide the population with housing in the framework of the Regional Development Program until 2020, housing will be provided in three areas - waiting lists in local executive bodies and waiting lists in the Kazakhstan Housing Construction Savings Bank and waiting lists in residential buildings of such "Yig."
On the eve of the commemorative date in the life of the people of Kazakhstan - the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on behalf of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, accept our ardent wishes for the health, well-being, peace and well-being of our country.
in addition, in the bureau, the committee on economic policy, innovative development and entrepreneurship was determined by the main committee on the bill "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Austrian Republic on international road transport of goods."
This year, about 8 thousand places will be provided in the capital for the first time.
the country has created all conditions for the development of the medical sphere.
The total cost of the project is 5.5 million euros, which will be financed by the Eurasian Union.
And judging by what is happening, penalties do not help much, "he added.
At 500 kV Semipalatinsk, 60.7 km of a total length of 106 km were built to build the 220 kV Semipalatinskaya - Shulbinsky hydroelectric power station inlet line.
I hope that in the future we will work together to improve the situation of the residents of our region, "said S. Kulagin.
Therefore, special attention will be paid to this area.
such a concept as unity, stability, are very close as a member of kha, "said Mr. Ntepova.
ashimbets nurzhan kermanovich
The head of the enterprise, who asked the head of state to allow the launch of the workshop, noted that his products are already exported to Italy.
According to the head of the mission, observers noted "an increase in the level of training of members of election commissions and the creation of election commissions."
musakozhaeva ayman kozhabekovna
Within the framework of the meeting, a business seminar was held with the participation of Polish companies and organizations, during which instruments of the economic policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan were presented, including public-private partnership, the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" and the international financial center "Capital."
one thing is that those with a lot of funds leave the country.
- Musbayev Nurzhan Abikhanovich, First Secretary of the Mangistau Regional Committee "Khkp"
Our people "have no future country that has forgotten the past."
They were presented with a festive mood by their grandfather frost and snowmen and heroes of various fairy tales.
In the works of the Mullashev fireplace, Tereshchenko nina, the Weaksvitsky faith, Kaliolla Akhmetzhan, Bakhytnur Burdesbekov, Sembigali Smagulov, along with the life of a Kazakh woman, the traditions of the nation are contained.
there is already interest in finished products, preliminary agreements have been concluded with customers.
most of these requirements we can only answer together.
improving the quality of products, works and services produced in the country, improving the quality and competitiveness of the Kazakhstan market.
Therefore, I want to hear what effect they saw today from universities, what changes the program has brought to the science of universities, "said E. Sagadiev.
Thanks to these measures, this year the number of vacationers on the shores of the Alakol and Balkash lakes has increased by almost 1.5 times, "the head of the region said.
Attracting additional funds taking into account the funds of the national fund provided for in the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol," loans from international financial organizations, the Chinese eximbank until 2020 "nұrly zhol - south," nұr zhol - east, "In the key areas" Nұrly zhol - west "and roads of republican significance, 8 thousand kilometers of roads will be put into operation," - said the Minister.
In his speech, the representative of the UN Alliance noted the importance of Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening and promoting issues of interreligious and intercultural dialogue.
The health train project will provide residents of remote settlements with the highest standards of medical care.
and this threat is a global war!
During the official visit to China, an agreement was reached on a joint inspection of meat and meat products producers this year, as a result of which the sale of Kazakh meat to China will be allowed.
improving financial stability and completing the implementation of primary health responsibility.
from the new year we learned to conduct kamaz combat equipment.
I consider it appropriate to decide on the holding of early elections, "said S. Markov.
At the end of the meeting, the heads of government noted the significant potential for expanding the sphere of cooperation and increasing trade between the two countries.
participants of the event include the military orchestra of the National Liberation Army of China, the military demonstration orchestra of the central house of the army of the Armed Forces of the Kyrgyz Republic, the exemplary orchestra of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the central military orchestra of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan km, the military brass band of the commandant regiment of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Tajikistan.
One of the main tasks facing local authorities in this direction will be to attract foreign investment.
divine tolepulus
cabiball cabenula jacupes
Compared to 2014 year, the number of completed cases amounted to 9 thousand cases (8,528 cases).
the text of the law is published in the press.
a copy of the minutes of the extraordinary congress "aul" hdpp xii with an additional copy on the registration of a political party in the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the submission of the party list; citizens' appeals; a biography of each person; tax authority certificate confirming the candidate; document confirming the electoral contribution of the political party; " "village."
despite the fact that this is difficult due to the international situation, this can be achieved.
your company will soon join the ranks of "white partners" - the world's leading companies investing in the exploration of Kazakhstan, "said scientist Nurzhanov.
stabilization of the financial sector
As you know, in the Pavlodar city in the 1920s, paleosological excavations were carried out and animal remains were discovered during excavations in the vicinity of Irtysh.
the conceptual basis for the convergence of cultures is impossible without the implementation of important international initiatives.
how can entrepreneurs help their employees save jobs and what do the authorities need to do?
national emblem of Kazakhstan
photographed Genghis cappars
We call on North Korea to fully implement the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, including the recent resolution (unsc/res/2270) and the commitments of the joint statement of the sixtieth talks of 19 September 2005, as well as to take concrete denuclearization measures.
these centers are built in a modern style.
- Kosarev Vladislav Borisovich, deputy of the majilis of the parliament of the V convocation
Recall that the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries was created in 1992 as a result of long-term cooperation between Turkic-speaking countries, which began with the first summit of the heads of Turkic-speaking states.
The Law on the Improvement of Law Enforcement Activities, signed by the Head of State on October 29, 2015, introduced a number of new mechanisms in personnel processes aimed at achieving tasks for the formation of professional personnel.
at the forum or in the future will make a presentation on online trading.
in three areas, 13,661 seedlings will be planted (poplar, shrub, neck, chicken, gravel, valley, arch, shallow seedlings, larch, almonds, etc.), including 7,261 in the "alma" area, 4,400 in the "yesil" area, 2000 seedlings in the "saryark" area.
Bartec CIS Vice President Dmitry Sultanov noted that this is the first production in Kazakhstan.
most often, the text indicates plans for optimizing existing tax regimes with the introduction of revenue and tax accounting expenses since 2017. "
all necessary basic components have been created, including databases, a state and an interdepartmental gateway.
absentee certificate is issued to the voter or his representative by proxy from March 4 to 19:00 hours on March 18.	also , the expert told about the terms of the getting the absentee ballot .	0,21
author:	photo by the author	0,21
the new book gives information about the life of the shocked Valikhanov and those facts that are still unknown, supplemented by new historical, archival documents.	many years zh.beisenbaiuly studies the life and work of the great kazakh ethnographer .	0,21
this is a unique body, an institution that exists only in our country, which conducts its competence from 100 ethnic groups, creates 962 ethnic centers.	the head of the state came to the polling station to take part in the elections .	0,21
we live in a new geopolitical, geoeconomic reality, requiring new rules of the game and methods, new tools for policy implementation.
to that end, comprehensive counter-terrorism instruments should be developed and adopted.
photo of baurzhan zhuasbaev
it was very meaningful.
UNESCO Deputy Director-General praised the initiative of Nazarbayev.
our partnership has demonstrated dynamic development.
akhko will contribute to the creation of a full-fledged market capital of Kazakhstan, which has not been realized over the years of independence, "he said. a bee.
Today, the attention of many countries to the practice of superiority of Kazakhstan is not new, especially in the post-Soviet space.
we planned to combine the elections, because it is convenient for saving budget funds, and the elections will be held synchronously, saving up to 4 billion tenge, "said the deputy chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan.
we believe in a good result. "
jakupov mirbolate habiula
in Kazakhstan there are a lot of masters of their business.
unzhakova irina sergeevna
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 653 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 489.8 billion as of 07.04.2016. Tenge (including decided from the account 455.2 billion Tenge), including with the opening of 179 savings accounts worth 80.9 billion tenge by November 30, 2015 before amendments to the legislation; 376.3 billion tenge has not yet been declared for 32.6 billion tenge by submitting 450 declarations to the state revenue authorities and opening accounts.
By 2020, it is planned to increase the production of fertilizers by 6-7 times, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Note that before the start of the Summer Olympic Games in Brazilian Rio de Janeiro there are 168 days left.
each of the political parties used different methods in their election campaigns.	first of all it is the active use of the social networks .	0,22
wings stand	courtesy photo	0,22
the area of the production facilities of the future aviation and technical center is more than 6,000 square meters.	the area of production objects of future air-technical center makes more than 6,000 sq.m.	0,22
- Turkunbek kazenovich, deputy of the majilis of the parliament of the V convocation	- majilis deputy of the fifth convocation tursynbek umirzakov ;	0,22
if we can give the student a comprehensive deep education and continuously awaken moral qualities in his hearts, then, of course, tomorrow's citizen will contribute to the formation of his own attitude to the person, her environment, "he said.
Singapore has access to the eeo market.
The head of state noted that the European Union is one of the most important vectors of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and is a priority area of ​ ​ trade and economic cooperation.
Kazakhstan and Senegal to cooperate in joint fight against international terrorism
This year's Address focuses on education.
In the period preceding the voting day, only 3 applications were received by the procuratorial bodies for elections to the Majilis of Parliament.	the public order at the polling stations is provided by the police .	0,22
in the area before that there was no place for milk production.	then i applied to  damu " entrepreneurship development fund to include me in the state program " business roadmap 2020 . "
Ertaev happiness
the adaptation plan will be developed in connection with research and some properties of institutions, the press service reports 100kadam.kz.
teachers of the Kazakh-Turkish lyceum spoke out against providing methodological assistance to schools in the region in teaching natural disciplines in English.
of which 166 Kazakh schools, 223 mixed, 189 schools with Russian language of instruction.
During the spring field work, akim sko Erik Sultanov told the heads of agriculture that the work of the sown areas is carried out smoothly.
yesimov ahmetzhan smagulula
the general agreement will increase the effectiveness of cooperation of the CIS member states in the fight against crime.
expert groups to consider the materials of the republican competition-exhibition "The best product of Kazakhstan" in three categories: "the best goods of production purpose," "the best goods for the population" and "the best food products."
another metal rental did not come to the engineers of the plant.
not photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
The purpose of the event is to train professional speakers from among youth in the prevention of violent extremism and radicalism.
the long journey begins with the first step, and by taking the first step, we rebuild the silk road again.
In this regard, the parliamentary dimension of the strategic partnership between the two countries plays a special role, the chairman of the Senate said.
the conference hosts the constituent session of the General Assembly of the Islamic Organization for Food Security (akiu).
as an ordinary citizen, it has become much easier for me to live.
here citizens can independently receive e-services and use electronic services, such as payment for utilities, reimbursement of taxes and fines.
As a result, 1,924 entrepreneurs received loans totaling KZT132.5 billion with a remuneration rate of 13.4% per annum.
of which 11%.
departments, departments of the antimonopoly body system, formed from the central executive body, "he said.
Aliyev, who took photos and videos
aliyev photographer
photo of Aliyev citizen
5 institutional reforms, "100 concrete steps" and many others are being implemented.
The chairman of the meeting at the meeting, supervised by the izmukhambetov baktykozha, reported, first of all, on the need to adopt decisions on two bills of the chairman of the committee on international affairs, defense and security of the maulen ashimbayev.
this gives energy, which is the center of all evolutionary development.
in addition, domestic and external demand has decreased.
Currently, Kazakhtelecom is fully working on the conversion of navigation equipment for operational call in the event of a white transport accident.
Also during the trip, a meeting was held with the famous Swedish traveler Christian Bodegren, who will travel around the world along the "great silk road."
The mission may also include delegations of the Ecu Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and other parliamentary organizations.
3 projects worth 1 billion US dollars: production of joint X-ray devices of Kazmedpribor LLP; construction of a mining and metallurgical plant on the basis of the Koktenkol mine in the Karaganda region; construction of a logistics terminal for the processing of vehicles in Astana.
We will spend not every year, but every two years, "said Piotrovsky.
as a result of concerted action by the Powers to preserve peace and the multifaceted operations of the United Nations as a whole, the issue of conflicts and wars alone was resolved.
The mpz specialists have a difficult task.
the forum will serve the professional development of young people, complement the industry with progressive creators, create leaders who can think creatively.
According to him, the main goal of the bill is to eliminate the shortcomings of the current legislation, provide the activities of postal operators with a legal basis that meets modern requirements and international standards, improve the quality of postal services and ensure its effectiveness.
Turar wing
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
this also applies to those who want to politicize and look for those responsible for the deterioration of the situation.
public monitoring will be carried out on 52 types of socially significant public services in the city of Taraz and 10 districts of the region.
there are enough contacts for mutually beneficial cooperation.
firstly, to ensure the effective functioning of the financial sector in conditions of free exchange rate of tenge.
izmukhambets baktykozha salakhatdinovich
that would enable the establishment of a centre for humanitarian integration.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that a major nuclear security summit will be held in Washington at the end of March next year.
photo: Bauyrzhan zhuasbaev
On behalf of the Governor of Zhambyl region, each child was presented with a congratulatory letter, a tablet, a soft toy, a sweet gift.
the text of the law is published in the press
The traditional annual event will be held 11 times this year.
A. Ayymbetov thanked the leadership of the Palace of schoolchildren for organizing such a meeting with the younger generation.
if you use only clean energy and do not use other energy that will lead to pollution of the atmosphere, then the price of clean energy will be reduced, "he said.
The project is improving the institutional framework for river basin management and supporting the implementation of protocols on transnational water resources management, water and health.
eku Mission Expert Group\Diakb
photographing the baurzhan zhuasbaev
beef and poultry meat are used as raw materials.
Also, the mother-collector, raising children alone, noted that thanks to the state policy in the country, housing has become very important for her first children.
well-equipped ice rinks and ice towns will become unusual for the rest of local residents and city guests.
Thus, we carried out work to reduce the cost of raw materials, and also took concrete measures to enter the special economic platform of the "saryark" of the city of Karaganda.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev expressed great confidence to all Kazakhstanis at the solemn meeting dedicated to the Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the capital.
bozhko Vladimir karpovich - Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Chairman of the Organization of Russian, Slavic and Kazakh Associations, member of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected by the party list, will be held on March 20, 2016.
The transition of the five-tier justice system to a three-tier judicial system in 2016 will reduce the time spent on cases and speed up the entry into force of judicial acts, which meets the high requirements of a democratic society.
On legalization of property located in the territory of Kazakhstan, the commission with local executive bodies and state revenue bodies received 78,795,1 applications (declarations) on legalization of property in the amount of 776 billion tenge: 595.8 housing facilities in the amount of 66,084 billion tenge; 33,830 non-residential facilities in the amount of 190.0 billion tenge, including 8,123 commercial facilities in the amount of 130.8 billion tenge; 28 interests of legal entities in the amount of 5.1 billion tenge; securities in the amount of 4.1 billion tenge.	the local authorities have received 78 776 applications for legalization of property located in kazakhstan totaling 795,1 billion tenge .	0,24
barrick gold corporation "discussed the prospects of cooperation in the implementation of exploration projects in Kazakhstan.
By order of the Minister of Education and Science of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated July 27, 2015 No. 481, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kazakhstan trade union of professional education and science workers, rectors and leading professors of higher educational institutions, cultural figures, as well as. A competition commission has been created consisting of executive secretaries of the youth wing of the Nұr Otan party and the Youth Congress of Kazakhstan.
1700 km of railways were built.
tangirkula anar
the builders built the road, the baker cooked the bread.
reason for object delay
this decision shows how important the agricultural sector is.
Equal access of parties to the media is ensured, and voters have the opportunity to receive full, reliable and timely information about their programmes, goals and activities.
Currently, council members are starting work on the development of existing programs and anti-crisis programs.
tax Roman greed
a tripartite memorandum was signed in Taldykorgan, giving such an opportunity at the Semipalatinsk State University named after Ilyas Zhansugurov.
the contribution of compulsory social health insurance is paid directly in proportion to the solvency of its member, that is, it is established depending on its income.
reduced pressure due to reduced responsibility for the supply of oil muz, each enterprise bears unified responsibility for the supply of oil to domestic plants.
professionalization of the state
rich water potential.
In Petropavlovsk, work is underway to prepare for elections to maslikhats.
dmitry dmitrievich
casatomprom is a natural and strategic choice for converdin as a major global producer of natural uranium and a major supplier of uranium concentrate to a conversion plant in metropolis.
creating transport
specific measures to carry out operational-investigative functions will increase the effectiveness of the investigative services of Kazakhstan.
When approving the Day of the First President, we, the deputies, carried out the will of a multinational country.
Note that the pilot project of the Kazagro national holding on the unification of agricultural farms on the basis of domestic singing cooperation has been implemented!
For example, if each of you employs 4 people at work, on average 20 people (including family members) will receive a stable income, "the Governor of the region said.
currently, joint tourist routes focused on the development of ethnocultural and environmental tourism have been approved on the silk road.
This project was opened within the framework of the Plan of the Nation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev "100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms."
the report also provides information about this.
Symbolic significance is the invitation of 25 gifted children from all districts and cities of the region for the 25th anniversary.
we need to continue looking for new opportunities to increase bilateral trade.	in this context , mr.idrissov emphasized the relevance of the diversification of transport routes , building of industrial and innovative cooperation and expanding trade and investment ties between the regions of kazakhstan and china .	0,24
however, the share of women in efficiency and progress cannot be overlooked.	in order to achieve this aim , we need to use the best standards in the world and , in particular , the standards of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) ,  said ye.bakhmutova said at the iv eurasian women 's summit .
these are mainly issues related to the provision of land and its targeted use.
Following a review of the aviation security system of the international airport of the city of Sharm el-Sheikh (Egypt).
One of the catalysts for its implementation will be the holding of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
improving the procedure for selecting candidates, improving the skills of employees, preventing the appearance of random and unworthy people.
Membership of individuals in the Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The event was attended by Vice Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan E. Imangaliyev, Deputy Akim of Astana E. Amanshayev, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament, education workers, teachers and school students.
on board the international space station lies the principle of your peace and harmony among people.
And on February 5, the Governor's Office of the capital will launch a single contact center that will inform citizens about its polling station.
at the meeting was a young lawyer lily ispenbetova.
The head of the Kazakh department and the head of the British film company also touched upon the distribution and display of Kazakh films at home and abroad.
the party has 5643 primary party organizations, 4 branches in large enterprises and 13 branches on the basis of primary party organizations.
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
The decrease in net profit in the first quarter of 2016 is mainly due to a decrease in the share in the profit of joint ventures and associated companies and an increase in income tax expenses, which was partially offset by a decrease in tax expenses other than income tax.
photo: baurzhan zhuasbaev, chingiz kapparov
photo: chingiz kapparov, baurzhan zhuasbaev
We are confident that in the near future, educated employees who are able to correctly perceive the current situation will come to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Astana Economic Forum is an annual dialogue platform for discussing and solving global problems.
system for choosing a future profession
The event was attended by descendants of Zhambyl, great-grandchildren of Bekzhan Makhmetov and Murathan Dzhambyl.
Thus, on the instructions of the head of State, since 1996 the necessary conditions have been created for the realization of the opportunities of gifted children.
in them, women widely intervene in politics, have maximum indicators. it is a very high rate .
the parties discussed the establishment of partnership in the economic sphere.
at the same time indicators assigned to the Ministry of Justice (registration of enterprises - 21 places; registration of property - 19th place; on the fulfillment of the contract - 9th place) in total, an increase of 45 positions was achieved, which led to an improvement in the indicators of the republic in the overall rating by 41 percent.
botagose aitzhanova
botagose aitzhanova
video citizen aliyev
in the second five-year plan, several more applications will be launched.
drawing citizen aliyev
photo: Aliyev citizen
he adequately justified the high rank of a member of the Russian geographical society.
Senators noted that at the beginning of the fifth session of the parliament of the fifth convocation, deputies actively worked on the consideration of bills aimed at legislative provision of the national plan.
photo of Baurzhan Zhuasbaev
we carefully study and analyze the positive and negative experience of the EU in the energy sector, including plans to create a European energy union, the minister said.	the following tasks shall be fulfilled to do so : gradual creation of a competitive energy market common for eaeu ; ensuring non-discriminatory access to the systems of transportation of energy resources ; development and launch of mechanisms to ensure coordinated energy policy ; removing barriers of mutual access to the energy markets of the union member states .	0,25
In the capital, 84.5% of children are enrolled in preschool education, the construction of kindergartens and schools continues.	84.5 % of children are covered with pre-school education .	0,25
The Employment Centre will develop an individual employment map for the unemployed in force in the author States and many European countries.	the adoption of the draft law will not lead to adverse socio-economic impact and financial costs from the state budget .	0,25
There are also 162 socio-political Internet resources. 13898 materials about elections in kazakhstan were published in the mass media in the period from january 20 through february 19 , 2016 , " m. sarsembayev told at the briefing in astana .
The bureau of the political council of the capital branch of the party "Nұr Otan" considered in detail the candidates of all candidates.
In his speech, he noted the creation of an ombudsman for children and the first step of the head of state in ensuring the optimal mechanism for protecting the rights of the younger generation in the country.
From 2015 to 2018, we plan to increase export sales by 30% of total revenue.
these are special consumers: internal affairs bodies of the Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, ambulance, etc.
I wish you love, increased mood and wishes to courageous citizens.
Another attention is the metallurgical plant, where the company should study the experience of creating leisure and living conditions for its employees.
his land also served there, which today is a reserve major.
on the eve of Independence Day, 399 km of roads of national importance will be commissioned in the country, including: 100 km along the central-eastern corridor, 33 km of which are 4-lane cement concrete pavement of the technical category; 62 km of the road along the center-south corridor in the Almaty-Kapchagai section.
General education schools schedule a day of vocational guidance on a quarterly basis with higher education institutions that have applied.
at the extraordinary XIII Congress of the Akzhol Party, it is planned to take part in early elections to the Majilis of Parliament and the election program "Working Time along the White Path."
Recall, on January 20, a decree was signed on the dissolution of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
a new outpatient clinic has been built.
An important policy document of the state aimed at eliminating the prerequisites of corruption was the anti-corruption strategy adopted for 2015-2025.
Currently, the plant also has a plan for the production of an electric locomotive traction transformer.
In the history of the winter universiade, China this time will send its strongest composition.
according to the results of counting the voting sheets, the candidates nominated by the kha council had the following votes.
In 2015, work was carried out to increase the capacity of processing enterprises, an additional 8.1 thousand tons of meat, 9 thousand tons of milk and 18.6 thousand tons of capacity for processing fruits and vegetables, the report said.
in this program, the president announced specific tasks and directions.
held several seminars and round tables with rural women in the regions.
elections not only if necessary, but also contribute to the emergence of a new power of parliament, the active participation of other parties.
Representatives of major international companies and financial organizations take part in it.
This important forum, in which deputies of the Majilis take part, is taking place today within the framework of the spring session of the CIS Interparliamentary Assembly in St. Petersburg.
The winner was a family of Syzdyks from secondary school No. 21.
As a result, about 1300 valuable exhibits ended up in national museum halls.
Today, the air fleet of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan is equipped with modern military equipment.
Currently, the creation of good conditions for investors is the main goal of investment policy in the country.
During the event, the Kazakh diplomat informed about the current economic and social situation in the country.
286 of them are ecu/diakb observers, 301 are observers of the CIS mission, 9 are from the mission of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, 75 are from the ecu parliamentary assembly, 14 are from the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, 17 are from the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking countries, 3 are from the organization of Islamic cooperation, 8 are from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, 102 are observers from foreign states.
In this regard, today we will listen to what measures are being developed by state bodies, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
In 2015, 27 projects totaling 44.6 billion tenge were introduced with the creation of 2,608 jobs.
daniyar kassymov
daniyar kassymov
hardened kaumetova
compensation
Drawing xronika.az
photographed baurzhan zhuasbaev
photo: liter.kz
According to him, citizens of Kazakhstan who are in countries where the polling station is not open can come and vote at polling stations in neighboring states.
this will contribute to a deeper study of the subsoil.
We must always keep the current situation under control, "said A. Sekeshev.
charity caravan action - a project aimed at establishing mercy, humanism and mutual assistance in society and strengthening care for the living conditions and health of Kazakhstanis, including children, people with disabilities.
The working day of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, headed by the Minister of Defense of the Imangali Tasmagambet, began with a minute of silence in honor of civilians, employees of the National Guard and the National Security Committee.
Governor of the Yaroslavl rural district of the Yesilsky district of the Akmola region din Estayev
to fulfill these tasks, it is necessary to carry out activities, "said K. Maxim.
The Protocol Agreement was extended until the Collective Security Treaty of 15 May 1992.
The transition of the film to history through modern children is also a harmony of generational continuity. "
"Poland is one of the most developed countries of eastern Europe, the potential of this state is very high, therefore it is beneficial for Kazakhstan to further develop cooperation with this country.
To date, they visit more than 30 settlements of the country.
authorship of the drawing
Already today, the first wave of investors moved their production to this zone and began their placement.
persons wrote and provided for comments to the minutes of the trial.
photo: baurzhan zhuasbaev
The factory for the production of freight and passenger electric locomotives was built using the technology of the French company alstom transport, which was implemented as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development for 2010-2014.
this figure increased with the opening of kindergarten in
the first Aktogai copper was produced as soon as possible: the project of the same was approved by the board of directors of the group in early December 2012, and construction work began in the first months of 2013.
for its uninterrupted operation in the region there is a rich raw material base: the act has reserves of large volumes of iron ores, which are 10% of the explored reserves and 30% of hydrocarbon raw materials, 55% - nickel, 40% - titanium, 34% - phosphorite, 4.7% - zinc in the country's total reserve.
this can be confirmed by peasants who have so far been carried out with the support of the head of state.
botagose aitzhanov
elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels are the right and necessary decision.
The briefing was attended by the head of the Karachay-Balkarian ethno-cultural association Uzdenova lelia akhmatovna, the head of the Tajik ethno-cultural association mullazhanov alizhon shukuruli, the chairman of the white sail youth league at the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Zhambyl region Makhuseyev Zayuddin abdulbahtiyarov.
The building of the yard club "west - 2" of the district of the "steppe" housing estate, which built house No. 6 "g," was donated by the construction company to state ownership.
this, in turn, increases the access of ordinary citizens to a wide range of information provided by government agencies.
In turn, he will be responsible not only for anti-crisis reform, but also for solving the problems of modernization, "said Mr. Nazimova.
Your arrival is a good opportunity to develop business relations between Kazakhstan and China in the field of film production. china film market is one of the most attractive .
I regard the early elections to the Majilis of parliament as an update of the intelligentsia, which will attract young people to power, "said A. Pilco.
today we have 200 foreign investors working in the manufacturing industry. there are 20 projects in engineering , 15 projects in the chemical and petrochemical industry , 5 projects in metallurgy , 30 projects in the food industry , 30 projects in the construction industry , " - said the minister .
construction industry
In early summer, a pedestrian street will be opened in the city center on weekends.
rau albert pavlovich
the time had come to answer to the people and the State.
Governor of Aktobe region berdybek saparbayev took part in the opening ceremony of the building, where employees of the new unique structure were located.
the chairman of the city council of veterans wished the young soldiers a bright road.
Considering that the heat supply is half the cost of all utilities and the difficult economic situation, the deputies of the maslikhat supported the decision of the akim of the city to allocate 1.1 billion tenge from the local budget in order to modernize heating networks and increase tariffs.
One of the important topics that will be discussed at the session will be the implementation of the integrated country review, the forum organizers said.
the capital is some city.
video: aliyev citizen
video: aliyev citizen
video: aliyev citizen
video citizen of alims
dariga nursellanovna
photo: Aliyev citizen
photo of Aliyev citizen
In turn, the ambassador expressed condolences on the occasion of yesterday's national mourning.
To date, the contribution of SMEs to GDP amounted to 25.6% compared to 26.2% in 2015, "the minister said.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened 743security accounts for money legalization totaling 518.9 billion as of 14.04.2016. Tenge (including allowed from the account 506.5 billion Tenge), including with the opening of 179 savings accounts worth 80.9 billion tenge by November 30, 2015 before amendments to the legislation; 393.7 billion tenge has not yet been declared for 32.6 billion tenge by submitting 528 declarations and opening accounts to state revenue bodies, the report said.
Let the blue flag of our creative community, able to evaluate and do what is not, always be at its height!
During the conversation with the Kalamgers of the country, topical issues of promoting literature in Kazakhstan, creating works of high artistry, as well as the further development of the spiritual and cultural sphere of Kazakhstan were discussed.
Recall that the negotiations of the parties took place within the framework of the 15th meeting of the inter-parliamentary board on cooperation between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
admission to the service of the prosecutor's office (the first step) begins today with a lower position - qualification requirements clearly regulate all conditions for holding a vacant position.
More than 600 troops gathered on the square of defenders of the Fatherland.
Currently, the library operates as part of the information and analytical department of the Majilis apparatus of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
One tourist who came to the country will create 5 jobs, which is equivalent to 8% of the total employment rate in the world.
it's not just our opinion.
this project will be implemented in 3 stages, "said A. Aserbayev.
L. Prokopenko noted that the principles of the assembly are combined with the basic values ​ ​ of the united nations.
He also expressed confidence that the Netherlands will support Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
100 specific plans of the nation have passed very important laws in parliament to implement institutional reforms.
this is not an easy requirement for either the singer or the actor!
During the meeting, the agenda of the upcoming plenary session will be considered and a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on amending the Protocol to the Agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on the delimitation of the bottom of the northern part of the Caspian Sea in order to exercise sovereign rights to subsoil use of July 6, 1998 will be submitted to the attention of the people's representatives, the press service of the Majilis reports.
It is pleasant that today's event was held within the walls of the building of the Russian Geographical Society, of which the shock of the Valikhans was a member.	minister counsellor of the embassy of kazakhstan in russia viktor temirbayev expressed gratitude to the translators , thanks to whom the book written in kazakh language became available to the russian readers .	0,27
congratulations on the beginning of the draw.
manuals and materials are also available.
In the current agreement on checkpoints with the Kyrgyz side, a railway checkpoint is established, located 20 km from a specific border.	the parties agreed to move the checkpoint from the merke station to the chaldovar station .	0,27
in size, these ships will be 2-3 times larger than those in service with the naval forces of Kazakhstan, with a net weight of 220-250 tons.	it is planned to modernize the production of multi-functional vessels , floating laboratories tugs .	0,27
Deputy Akim Sko aidarbek saparov at the opening of the project noted that the implementation of this project will have a positive impact on the manufacturing industry of the region.	first deputy akim of north kazakhstan aidarbek saparov took part in the opening of the shop .	0,27
it is also planned to launch the production of spare parts necessary for the automotive industry.	it is planned to launch production of cars parts there as well .	0,27
Recall, on October 31, 2015, after the crash of a Russian aircraft in Egypt, the Civil Aviation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan recommended suspending flights of Egyptian airlines to Kazakhstan and Egypt.	recall , after the collapse of the russian aircraft in the arab republic of egypt , the committee of civil aviation decided not to carry out flights to egypt .	0,27
Also today, a proposal was announced to hold by-elections to maslikhats.	sydyknazarov has said .	0,27
a new silk road of economic cooperation. " Chairman of the Board-President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan tamara duissenova Chairman of the Board of the "baiterek" ubh "kuandyk bishimbayev" development, "etc.
The spiritual and moral development of a child of school age is successfully carried out as the density of relations between school and family increases.
Governor of Almaty region Amandyk Batalov congratulated the audience:
Recall that the deputies took the initiative on early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service of the national company, buyers will be available to purchase several types of tickets.
Today's forum, along with the exchange of experience, promotes the promotion of our technologies in the space sphere. we have made a lot to train personnel .
this income can be divided among the members of the cooperative or directed to the development of the cooperative.
Zhambyl subsoil produces 300.0 thousand tons of cement of m-400, m-500 grade per year.
thanks to the support of the state, young people thanked the head of state.
metallurgy
about a ton of finished products per day will be produced here.
the threat of terrorism also required attention, which could only be fought together.
within the fund was criticized and radically revised about two thousand processes, a system of main activities was introduced.
It will be about 4.8 billion tenge, "- said K. Turgankulov.
According to him, it was ratified by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on December 30, 2015 "On some issues of privatization for 2016-2020" In accordance with the resolution of the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region No. 1141 19, a legal entity with a stake in the state owned by the community is planned to transfer 5 organizations to the competitive environment as part of JSC "Social and entrepreneurial corporation" Shymkent, "a total of 24 organizations.
unhindered supply of food products to outlets of Zhambyl region and holding food fairs of entrepreneurs and producers of Kyrgyzstan in Zhambyl region.
It is necessary to create tourist agricultural products that will be interesting to guests who come to us.
exhibits from all over the country witnessed Kazakh history.
On the eve of the March holiday akim of the region Krymbek Kusherbayev solemnly handed over the keys to the emergency residential building on Kappasbay batyr street in Kyzylorda.
N.Nazarbayev at the beginning of his message announced his accession to the WTO.
Also, during the visit to the field, the participants of the meeting got acquainted with the work of the installation of integrated treatment of "future" oil and gas.
innovative subjects are widely mastered at the school, many circles are organized, additional classes are held in selected subjects.
More than 30 thousand organizations and institutions operate in South Kazakhstan region.	also akim drew attention to the achievements of the region in the implementation of women 's initiatives .	0,28
Currently, the company is working to increase production volumes without reducing the number of employees, despite a decrease in oil production.	the company works on the preservation of jobs and increase output despite an increase in oil production .	0,28
this should be the most direct and effective way to attract financial sources to our region.	in order to increase the agricultural production the villagers should actively explore the measures of the state support ,  the governor of the region said .
drawing from personal archive
In turn, Mark rutte expressed his readiness to provide support in one area or another, noting that the completion of negotiations on our country's accession to the WTO, the signing of an agreement on expanded cooperation and partnership with the EU is especially important in strengthening bilateral relations.
on the territory of the department, practical exercises are conducted to determine the source of ionized radiation on the ground.
according to him, one of the optimal parties and the urgent task of the manifesto is to create a global coalition to preserve the stability and security of the state under the auspices of the UN.
At today's meeting, 10-graders from 50 metropolitan schools will demonstrate their ideas about what qualities are needed to become leaders.	in the end , pupils of 9-10 grades presented their presentations on their leadership aspirations .	0,28
the company covers more than 5% of the total market of medicines of the country and provides more than 50% of the domestic production of medicines.	in turn , the workers thanked the president for his attention he pays to development of the sphere .	0,28
pharmaceutics	pharmaceutics	0,28
During this year, it is planned to open 4 enterprises with the participation of Spanish companies.	it has been operating for many years .	0,28
Also, as noted a.rimmer, in the youth wing there is a dance studio that teaches traditional German dances.	we also have a social theater ,  she said .
projects are selected by the regional chamber of entrepreneurs.
today he is the commander of the radio station - the head of the station.
daniyar kassymov
Buo work, especially in special economic zones, will be aimed at improving the effectiveness of the governing bodies.
this is a good situation, given the current situation in the world market.
From 2010 to 2014, domestic product grew by an average of 5.7%.
this is both in oil production and in oil and gas processing.
in addition, more than 85 per cent of schools are covered by hot meals, including 436,000 children provided with free hot meals.
Public funds, however, offer great opportunities to get to their destination in a timely manner and to closely monitor effective spending.
Recall that this document was developed in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of this year on the introduction of a moratorium on the application of some norms of land legislation.
EEC members discussed restrictions and barriers in the EAEU market.
tangyrkula anara
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
hardened caumette
kaumetov download
in this regard, we are interested in sharing your experience on the application of information technologies in legal proceedings.
chemical production
the center operates daily 09.00 until 18.00 p.m., without a weekend, and a month before the election, the center moves to a 12-hour working day.
a large multi-storey building can be finished by the mill in just 3-4 months.
Aliyev citizen's video
video: aliyeva citizen
video: aliyeva citizen
More than 40 official delegations from the defense departments of foreign countries arrived at the exhibition.
they are the first direction - increasing the effectiveness of monetary policy, supporting financial stability, the second direction - expanding economic support measures within the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol," the third direction - supporting small and medium-sized businesses and the main sectors of the economy, the fourth direction - business activity and support for reaching the population.
photo: aliyeva citizen
photo: mercy
Since the beginning of 2016, institutional reforms and measures have been launched to update the legislative framework.
As you know, at present you are not returning from the market for the formation of a sharp increase in trends among economic entities. it is evident that the trend to hold forums is increasing .
only in this way will each economic entity be interested in paying taxes in full.
Issues on the development of toll roads until 2020, the safety of international transport in the framework of partnership with the international road transport union.
Recall, Europe Day is an annual holiday of peace and unity in the countries of the European Union.
ladies and gentlemen!
4295 diagnostic processes were carried out (302 ultrasound examinations of internal organs, 364 egoencephalography and ultrasound dopplerography of the brain, 179 electrocardiographies, 101 measurements of internal eye pressure, 213 X-ray examinations, 33 endoscopies, 3103 clinical and biochemical analyses), 26 small polyclinic operations were carried out.
summing up the meeting, the parties expressed interest in expanding joint actions in the field of justice.
In his welcoming speech, the Secretary of State noted that the President of Kazakhstan pays special attention to the identification and improvement of gifted children, to increasing the competitive human capital of the country.
you are responsible for the election.
a special camp operated in 1937-1953.
In order to support SMEs, the Development Fund allocated KZT500.0 million at the expense of the local budget for lending to entities with a low rate of remuneration (6.5%).
Today, the competitiveness of products at low prices remains.
In particular, at present, out of 458 families wishing to move to this region, 50, about 200 South Kazakhstan residents have moved to the north and are provided with work and housing under the 2020 Employment Roadmap program.
Today, the national academic library of the Republic of Kazakhstan launched an international educational congress dedicated to the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the topic: "The reader is the future of the country of the great steppe."
in particular, amendments to article 8 provide for the competence of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and local executive bodies.
Muradov ahmed Seidarakhmanovich - co-chairman of the "Association for the Development of Chechen and Ingush Culture," member of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the v convocation.
in addition, both parties came to a common deal that the decision to begin the construction of the refinery will be made after the conclusion of a feasibility study.
in general, the efficiency and security of goods will be improved if the control and control bodies in the States of the Union work on the basis of common experience.
this milk processing shop is one of the projects included in the industrialization map of western Kazakhstan.
we saw how the national bank managed the funds of future pensioners, allocated funds to banks, and they used the same funds as them.
The head of the region congratulated all residents and guests of the city on this holiday.
It is worth noting that this project will be implemented as part of the 36th step "100 concrete steps" in the implementation of the National Plan for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms of the Head of State.
dear Kazakhstanis!
a lot of work has been done.
shishigina olga vasilievna
the authenticity of Kazakhstani patriotism can be said only in case of pride for each Kazakh coat of arms and flag
All activities carried out by the organizations were presented on the basis of ethnic determination and turnout in accordance with the formation of a general Kazakh culture in the framework of inter-ethnic and interfaith cooperation.
the effects of the crisis are felt by ordinary workers and the socially vulnerable.
This year, it is planned to commission at least 580 thousand square meters of housing in the region, of which 141.9 thousand square meters were commissioned at the expense of all sources of financing.
therefore, it was difficult to produce such a product.
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 05.04.2016 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.4 billion tenge.
According to the calculation of the 1st as of 07.04.2016 of the year according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.4 billion tenge.
- introduction of the institution of "communal property of local self-government";
The project cost amounted to $215.5 million.
The implementation of 93 steps is the formation of a transparent and accountable model of the state, ensuring the active participation of independent experts in the assessment of the work of state bodies and the personal responsibility of the first heads of state bodies.
Recall that the third meeting of the commission was devoted to the issue of leasing land to foreign people.
The first stage of the implementation of the international e-freight standard is being implemented as part of the implementation of the nation's plan "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms of the head of state," the program of which is the transfer of the consignment note of the cargo carrier from paper to electronic format.
therefore, we want to act on the fact in the world market.
most of the terrorists were destroyed, some were taken up, the rest are wanted by the relevant authorities and will be punished according to the most stringent requirements of the law.
let's see how voter training is distributed.
to move to the nearest seaport, to join the seaport on the west coast of India.
Recall, on March 20, Kazakhstan hosts meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels.
At the 26th meeting of the energy charter conference, issues of updating the energy charter were considered, a deep review of energy efficiency in the countries of the energy charter was carried out, further monitoring was discussed to assess the effectiveness of the recommendations of the reviews.
this significantly optimizes the transportation of vacationers.
in the future, Kazakhstan plans to extend the school year until mid-summer.
elections are held legally, "he said.
Chairman of the Board of Kazgeologiya JSC, scientist Nurzhanov and Director of Geological Exploration of Kazgeologiya LLP Vladimir Benesh agreed on the implementation of joint projects.
horizons of innovative industrialization
In conclusion, the head of the region instructed the meeting participants to strengthen measures to support the region's economy.
According to e. Dossaev, according to the forecast, at a price of $30 per barrel, gin growth will be 0.5%
the entry into force of the necessary regulatory framework and agreement should be an effective way to attract mutual investment.
they are invited to provide employment, rental housing or a hostel.
the holiday was continued by ethnocultural associations, organized an exhibition of folk art, dance groups performed a "suite of friendship."
Your open civil thought in the anti-nuclear movement, of course, played an important role in the struggle to ban nuclear weapons tests in the world, "said President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev in a letter.
thirdly, strategic investors will be involved in this area
The main purpose of these meetings is to work out and strengthen the prospects of cooperation between the two countries in various areas with newly appointed official officials in connection with the parliamentary elections in Slovakia and the creation of a new government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Born May 21, 1967.
irey noted the importance of opening a direct flight from October to the capital and expressed his opinion on mutual cooperation.
Today, a number of laws of the legislative base have been signed by the head of state, and in the near future we will achieve the results of the changes, "concluded A. Irgaliev.
as a result of the joint work of the meeting participants with the commission, the authorities of the states of the antimonopoly eurozone, cellular operators, payment for voice roaming services has decreased.
At the meeting of the commission, the category of employees participating in the competition of the President's international scholarship "Future" was determined through an internship program aimed at training specialists on targeted orders for the projects of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan.
summing up the meeting, the Secretary of State gave a number of instructions to further improve and increase the effectiveness of the mechanism for implementing the international Bolashak scholarship.
According to the Minister, all the best countries in the sphere of back confirmed their participation in EXPO-2017.
If there is demand in neighboring areas, we will transport our products and contribute to an increase in trade, the head of the region said.
In the second part of the meeting, Kazakh border guards exchanged experience in the field of country security.
During the ceremony, five of the seven children were awarded the "golden collegium."
From January 1, 2016, the wages of health workers will increase to an average of 28%, education workers - up to 29%, social workers - up to 40%.
According to a member of the CEC, the mission will also include representatives of the inter-parliamentary assembly of the Commonwealth member states, the parliamentary assembly of the Union of Russia and Belarus and the legislative parliamentary assembly of the Commonwealth executive committee.
further, the meeting participants discussed the rules of the event and voting methods.
The head of the department also said that on February 15, 2016, local executive bodies will develop and approve regional comprehensive plans that provide assistance in the employment of dismissed citizens, as well as self-employed and unemployed.
We note the preparatory work carried out by the CEC following the meeting and elections to maslikhats of all levels.
In order to preserve the jobs of highly qualified specialists, enterprises will introduce mechanisms for temporary subsidies of 2/3 of wages due to reduced working hours.
2 . this decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
for a more detailed understanding, the astronaut demonstrated on an interactive survey board the highest quality, made above the capital with an increase in space to 1 meter by the first Kazakh satellite gazeosat-1.
And when it came to this, the senator asked the rapporteur to note the competent authorities of the country in the field of information security.
Within its framework, negotiations were held with the heads of leading educational institutions.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the countries of the Muslim world themselves, which are the victims of terrorist attacks of dozens of people who do not have any plain, are primarily affected by terrorism.
60 people will be employed on employment measures.
Also on the stage for Taldykorgans on this day were the stars of Kazakhstan pop - Okapov and Marat Ilyas.
they also appointed a national commission as the first country in western Europe.
applicants participating in the agenda on behalf of kha participate in early elections to the majilis.
the national holding confirmed its intention by developing a new scheme for tax-free financing of such associations through second-tier banks.
The sectoral ministry is concerned about the indicator of academic migration of graduates of Kazakh schools to other countries.
the initiative of the deputies proposed by the head of state will not extend the election campaign and reduce the costs of the election campaign in a crisis period.
As the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted, last October Kazakhstan concluded negotiations on expanding its partnership with the EU.
Azerbaijan had recently amended its nationality law accordingly.
today the plant employs about 600 people.
in practical exercises, all radio engineering units of the air defense forces are involved, which have completed combat missions to identify air targets.
Dyrisov noted that the voting results will support the Kazakh voters for the further sustainable development of the state.
a departmental data fund for reservists is created, which provides specific information about the vacant leadership positions in the fund and the requirements for the candidate to occupy it.
the objectives of the project are to improve the quality of tourism services on the eve of Expo 2017; Development of tourism-related industries (artisans, services, transport, food, hotels and others); popularization of tourism among the population of tourist-attractive regions; stimulating the learning of foreign languages among service providers; promoting environmental tourism; " Support for the implementation of the Concept for the development of the tourism industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020. "
On January 14 of this year, I signed a decree establishing the first of March as a day of gratitude.
among these business ideas is the project "zhanabayev r" to open a beauty salon in the village of toretam, the zhk workshop of the Cossack harvesting house building in the village of akai of the institution "Bolan," The project to create blinds in the village of the trust "Utetileuova a" Project of the company "Ermekbaeva" to open a pasta workshop in the aul received state support.
282 thousand square meters of housing were built, housing conditions of 2406 families were improved.
in peacekeeping operations, military observers are UN personnel and adhere to the principle of neutrality without the support of any of the conflicting parties.
tanyrkulova anara
tangirkulova anara
anaratangirkulova
anar taingirkulova
tangirkulova anar.
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
tangirkulova anar
.thotagosis of aitzhanov
botagose aitzhanova
botagose aitzhanova
botagose aitzhanova
botagose aitzhanova
these products were not previously produced.	the complex for the production of barite concentrate in karaganda region is established by llp  karazhal operating " together with " halliburton " company .
optimizing fiscal policy
video: aliyev citizen
daniyar kassymov
daniyar kassymov
there is always a place in the world for eternal values: good, charity, mutual assistance.
The Ambassador noted the successful cooperation of the Norwegian side with the Pavlodar region in the field of education.
nationwide teleconference, during which it is planned to summarize the results of the industrial-innovation program, including 2015, as well as launch 18 new objects of the industrialization map online.
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
Currently, 17 people from the Central Election Commission of Kyrgyzstan work throughout Kazakhstan as an international observer from the Kyrgyz Republic. i was surprised that at seven o 'clock there were voters who wanted to cast their votes .
wings stand
Mikhail Vladimirovich
muhamediula lion
spherical wolf
asked for celebrations
This time, 20 athletes gathered at the club of the city society of the blind to try their gardens at competitions with special prizes and medals.
moreover, the chairmanship of Kazakhstan coincided with a difficult situation, a crisis.
Having read the president's message, I was surprised that he understands the situation of ordinary Kazakhstanis.
The work of deputies of the 5th convocation of the Majilis is respected.	according to her , the mps fulfilled its mission .	0,30
According to the Pension Support Center of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by January 1, 2016, 50 percent of the amount of mandatory pension contributions transferred at the expense of budget funds are returned to active military personnel and servicemen who first enlisted after January 1, 1998 and were released before January 1, 2016, who are entitled to a pension.	also 50 % of the mandatory pension contributions , listed by the budget until 1 january 2016 in their favor , will be transferred to the budget revenues .	0,30
under the first project, it is planned to build a plant for the manufacture of aluminum discs for cars.	it is a building of a plant for the production of aluminum wheels for cars .	0,30
The concert was successful, talented performers were grateful to the public of Ankara.	the audience applauded the young talents .	0,30
Today, the armed forces of Kazakhstan are not a passion for war and peace!	therefore , it will always be the highest value for any country ,  the words of the head of state who has realized the age-old dream of the people of the sovereignty and freedom .
The event is attended by young leaders of ethnocultural associations of all regions of Kazakhstan aged 18 to 29 years, specialists of state bodies, religious scholars, theologians, journalists.
Together with this zone, it is necessary to mobilize the young generation, youth organizations to participate in the festive events of the city.
During the meeting, the parties agreed to strengthen cooperation and carry out similar work in the future, East Kazakhstan region reports.
Mr. Gortz also proposed to hold a joint seminar in Ust-Kamenogorsk on the exchange of experience in this area.
By the way, young people are actively participating in the work.
he praised the recent visit of Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to Kazakhstan.
because in order to carry out reforms further, as well as to be responsible for the external processes that are currently taking place, parliament, of course, must come on a new agenda with a new face, as well as with new views of its own.
It should be noted that Governor Sko Erik Sultanov and the Governor of the Kurgan region signed a protocol following the visit of the delegation.
According to N.Sheimerdenova, young generations who speak several foreign languages, have been educated through the "future" program, today have the opportunity to offer new ideas and work in the geopolitical situation in the global crisis.
31 stations of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" will become the center of the Jambyl region - Taraz.
this is the largest zinc deposit in Kazakhstan, which today accounts for 30% of the country's resources.
the cluster approach will increase the competitiveness of the tourism sector in Kazakhstan.
In addition, Kazakhstan will create conditions for the development of the jewelry industry and form a single legislative basis for regulating public relations arising in this direction, "the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said.
Kazakhstan made a significant contribution to the signing and implementation of this document.
there are many such components in the project, that is, the main goal of the project is to make the modern criminal justice system effective, less valuable and in this regard ensure the safety of society, "said the radiation school of the national expert of the European Union project" Improving criminal justice in Kazakhstan. "
In addition to the solemn award, a special exhibition was organized for the participants, at which kha studies on the study of the state language were presented.
All vacationing children who arrived in the camp with beautiful nature were congratulated by Governor of the district B. Kusherbay and deputies of the district maslikhat.
I invite everyone to think about the importance of educational opportunities and the opportunities of the EXPO-2017 exhibition, "he said.
It should be noted that today the collegium of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Dariga Nazarbayeva is taking place in the capital.
eeo member cited imported dairy products as an example.
this will allow for a long-term partnership.
they are included in the list and imported in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and then imported into the EAEU member state.
This year, before reporting in our country, we come to the capital and organize hermitage days.
deutsche bank is ready to play an important role in the development of ahko.
it is one of the best hospitals in the city, where modern technologies and advances in medicine are combined.	it combines the latest technologies and advances in the medicine .	0,31
It is worth noting that the process of legalization helps people legalize those forms of property that previously could not register.	it is worth noting that the legalization process helps people to legitimize the objects of property which could not be properly registered before or objects that people did not want to legalize .	0,31
goods are delivered from the Ural Transformer Plant, producing 10 thousand units of such products per year.	the agreement on export of kazakhstan 's meat was signed between the kazakhstan company  meat processing service " and llp " mohammed haligri " in the amount of $ 30 million .
this reduced the issuance of documents from 30 to 15 working days, "said the vice minister.
Participation in EXPO-2017 was also not ignored.
lost absentee certificates for the right to vote are not restored and a copy version is not issued.
a pilot project is being implemented to demolish dilapidated and emergency housing.
The amount of applications for legalization of property and money as of today exceeded 1.4 trillion tenge, of which 1.2 trillion tenge was legalized, including for property located in Kazakhstan, in the amount of 645 billion tenge;
in general, it is possible to give a positive assessment of the work of the metropolitan department of internal affairs, summed up the marat of demeues.
this work will improve the quality of the project, "said Murat Kurbanbayev, Director of Kaznipimunaigas JSC.
According to him, this program will be funded by reducing non-core funds.
2) planning the activities of management companies;
moreover, as the experience of past wars and conflicts had shown, it was impossible to ensure its security by putting pressure on the security of other States.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban also noted that education is the basis of society.
The first store in Kazakhstan opened in the capital, as it is called the "capital of the people's brand."
party members unanimously approved the decision to participate in the meeting and early elections to maslikhats.
The President of the Senate informed the ambassadors about the implementation of the national plan and five institutional reforms.
Given the current economic situation in the world, I think this decision was made correctly. i think it 's the right decision .
During the financial and economic skills, the head of state paid attention to such pressing issues as maintaining the stability and unity of society, ensuring national security, conducting foreign and domestic policies, he said.
Within three days, the forum participants will discuss the experience and practice of reforming the public procurement system.
organizational work has begun with a center for supporting entrepreneurs in training the basics of entrepreneurship, a full list of those wishing to study in employment centers has been sent.
due to the error of the general contractor and subcontractors conducting the construction, the facility was not put into operation as planned.
The main disease among conscripts, delayed for health reasons, are diseases of the internal body, surgical and nervous systems.
The Committee on International Standards crirsco approved the public code on the results of exploration and mineral resources kazrc and adopted into the international standards crirsco.	kazakhstan has been also approved as the member of the international crirsco standards .	0,31
On the issue of preparation for the spring field campaign B. Saparbayev instructed to carry out sowing in a favorable time frame.	during the discussion on preparations for the spring sowing campaign , b. saparbayev instructed to carry out planting in the optimum time and pay attention to the quality and preparation of the seed .	0,31
One of the most popular portal services is online business registration.	however , as emphasized , an important stage in the development of e-services infrastructure is the creation of mobile government .	0,31
also in the Ili region, at the initiative of the Ministry of Agriculture, 1,480 other cooperatives were created, uniting 24 peasant farms.	six milk collection points were opened in karatal district at the milk factory  ushtobe aydin . "
In addition, the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan offered to exchange schedules of holding separate trade fairs.
The initiative of the head of state on disarmament in the fight against terrorism and the promotion of international cooperation was also proposed.
On all gifts, acceptance contracts are legally concluded, which are transferred to the fund of the national museum.
at the same time, the judge does not have the right to stop recording, to correct the material.
whatever the crisis, if we attracted investors, everything worked out well, the economy of Zhambyl region would continue to develop.
Sergey has previously performed in international arenas.
therefore, the task and dream of the government is to benefit our country and the economy, to commercialize their activities as much as possible and remove the burden from the state budget, "said D. Nazarbayev.
Following the meeting of the intergovernmental commission, the parties signed a protocol approving the agreements reached.
Having signed the corresponding document on the supply of infrared lenses and thermal imaging cameras for further integration with Belarusian "diapers" in uua on the integration of thermal imaging cameras into aiming complexes (RF).
In addition, today the issue of opening another third, that is, the Eurasian regional region, the center of which will be the capital, is being discussed.
In addition, infrastructure issues were resolved: 4,000 km of roads were built and modernized.
the memorandum provides for the creation of jobs to achieve the goals set.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to increase agricultural productivity, paying special attention to the importance of applying scientific approaches.
It should be noted that the meeting was attended by the chairmen of the parliaments of the member states (Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey), in particular, the chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kabibullah Dzhakupov, the chairman of the Azerbaijani National Assembly and the gulshara abdykalikova.
Assistance in visiting the sights of the region to children under treatment was provided by the team of the regional station of young tourists.
to provide these projects with raw materials, procurement organizations are being created around large feeding complexes of the region.
This will contribute to early elections, "said the turner.
In order to continue the long-term traditional partnership with the Kostanay region, we are supporting the social sphere of the region, where the Sokolovo-Sarybay mining and processing plant is located.
"He congratulated the Kazakh people and the central election commission on the elections held yesterday.
- If it is possible to provide 2,028,444 paper-based services through the web portal of "e-government" and (or) the state corporation, by the beneficiaries - 78%;
The importance of preparing for this event is to hold together elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels, "the expert noted.
He noted that the city perinatal center of the second level and the regional perinatal center of the third level are united and have become a regional center of the third level.
The updated operating model bklk allows the involvement of rolling stock and logistics companies from outside in order to reduce the cost of services and increase the quality level due to market requirements.
all this is done in order to form a database of associations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
to solve sectoral problems of the economy of Kazakhstan.
So, in 2014, inspectors of subordinate organizations of the Committee of Forestry and Wildlife of the Republic of Kazakhstan revealed about 79 facts of poaching and trade in saiga horns, and in 2015 - 107.
In general, the glove factory was opened and launched this year in the industrial zone "South."
The concert began immediately after the speech of the head of state, in which the head of state congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Independence Day.
As the Kazakh diplomat noted, the main goal of this holiday is to consolidate the population with one goal in implementing the policy of the head of state.
in total - 11 projects worth 1.2 billion US dollars.
In 2015, 6 foreign companies were refinanced: danone, lg electronics, galaksi group, btm group, lotte group, coca-cola.
fourthly, as part of the second phase of the reform of the antimonopoly industry, changes and additions to the competition legislation must be made without delay.
One of the project participants - Regional Grain Holding LLP in Akmola region - noted the results and prospects of activity, according to which in 2016, due to new members of the association, it will expand the sown areas from the current 360 thousand hectares to 1 million hectares.
in addition, an exhibition will be held on the topic "Investment projects of the Kyzylorda region."
More than a thousand jobs have been created.
when you pay with a card, the following cards are valid online: visa and mastercard.	the open-date ticket allows to visit the exhibition in any day .	0,32
then oil prices rose.
a people that expects only good things from the changes ahead.
forums and summits are often held here.
The Italian company and the representative office participating in the conference presented their activities briefly.
The Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces personally took part in the implementation of flights at the Taldykorgan aviation base and assessed the readiness of the flight crew.
Since the entrepreneur is a member of the chick program, the parents of each child over 3 receive part of the fee from the state, and the monthly fee for kindergarten is also fairly affordable.
The Secretary of State noted that today the best specialists of all branches of medicine are concentrated in the clinics of the medical holding, high-quality medical services of the group of companies of the holding are in great demand.
The State birth registration service is issued through local executive bodies and public service centres.
Mr. Abdykalikova also met with the Executive Secretary of the Inter-American Commission on Women of the Organization of American States (amu), Ambassador K. Moreno.
Since 2010, the international project "Memory of the Future" has been implemented, which will be held on May 31 on the basis of the memory of the victims.
This decree comes into force after ten calendar days after its first official publication, "the text of the decree says.
A 25 per cent increase in social benefits related to disability and survivors, as well as scholarships.
As a result, since 2017 it is planned to gasify district centers, in the future - coverage of settlements, "the report said.
At the meeting of the republican budget commission on the formation of the republican budget for 2016-2018 years on August 8, 2015 year, the annual amount of funds required to pay membership fees of 5,396,45 million tenge was approved.
The parties advocating countering terrorism and extremism, including within the framework of their statements at the 70th session Nazarbayev paid special attention to strengthening cooperation in solving these issues.
this is the first job fair to be held this year.
I sincerely congratulate you on the day of March 8, let this spring be happy for you.
the law processes information in the media. "
the high percentage of conscripts deferred for health reasons (required for treatment) confirms the insufficient quality of health care among conscription and conscription youth carried out by health organizations.
30 tons of wheat will be shipped in a minute, "said the master of the loading and unloading complex.
if the chairman of the court does not obey the lawsuit, the chairman of the court reports to the plenum of the regional presidium or the court equated to it.	according to this view , the meeting shall consider and make a decision about punishment : the prevention of future similar violations , strictly specify and submit to the court the jury at the supreme court .	0,32
kindergarten can receive 140 children - in the group with the Kazakh language of instruction - 70, the remaining half - in the department of Russian-language education.	in 2015 the building was reconstructed in the amount of 8 million tenge .	0,32
More than 800 young girls gathered in a tent camp deployed on the territory of the training center.	the camp is situated on the territory of the training centre .	0,32
the Parliament Library cooperates closely with many libraries in Kazakhstan and other public and private information structures.	the library has an internet class , access to electronic databases for rapid search of legal information .	0,32
The practice of organizing competitions between centrists or representatives of a political party on the eve of elections has become a tradition in world politics.	auyl party suggested mapping out a specialized state program on village infrastructure .	0,32
By this time, eight meetings of this commission had taken place.	it has held 8 meetings .	0,32
the plan of the nation is the way to the Kazakh dream. "
In general, at the end of the year, the chamber achieved great results in several priority areas: eliminating administrative barriers, protecting the rights of entrepreneurs, supporting projects, non-financial assistance to entrepreneurs and developing human capital, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana.
public works together with unemployed, students and high school students of general schools during the summer holidays, during the suspension of the enterprise.
in this regard, the fund will not become an administrative regulator in the future, which will coordinate the activities of portfolio companies, but an organization that will increase cost and increase revenue.
in the near future it is planned to provide work for several more people.
16 km of the road are built in the technical category for 4 lanes, the remaining 11 km - in 2 lanes in the technical category.
maksimenko Andrei Vladimirovich, born in 1972, a seller of the pallada arms store.
Once the demining of these 3 refineries is completed, we will reach 100% coverage of the domestic market needs with oil products of our own production.	the minister also specified that modernization of pavlodar and shymkent oil refineries is scheduled to be finished by late 2017 .	0,32
The head of the region expressed gratitude for the meeting with the janet-heckman and briefly spoke about the socio-economic development of the region.	it is necessary to get 1 billion 688 million 339 thousand tenge to complete the construction .	0,32
The amount allocated from the Czech state budget for participation amounted to 98.2 million CZK (3.63 million euros), "the report said.
every Ukrainian after graduating from high school should know Kazakh and English well.
this project, which managed to win more votes and actually has its own pool of buyers, is being implemented as a priority.
In order to solve the problem of eliminating emergency schools in the region in 2015, 2 schools were commissioned - in the village of Kakvatas with 250 seats, in the village of kordai with 300 seats.
their peculiarity is determination of transport speed by radar and/or optical method, at the same time features of external operation are not known.
The volume of contracts of the Kazakh holding "Bipek Auto - Asia Auto" covers the markets of 7 states, including Kazakhstan and the Asian part of Russia with a population of more than 84 million people.
the crisis stimulates the advancement of reforms and forces modern state-owned companies to make decisions such as privatization.
its author is a famous shaken niyazbek artist.
in addition, professional standards are being set and training standards are being changed.
special buses will also be introduced to ensure the safe transportation of schoolchildren, which will reduce the load on the roads of the capital.
in the receiving room n.p. Nazarbayev's works are presented, the possibility of photographing memory is provided.
carefully check whether it is possible to pay for your bank card via the Internet, "the message said.
The combined norm of the tow truck on vehicles is prescribed in the technical regulation of the customs union 018/2011 tr. "On the safety of wheeled vehicles," which entered into force on January 1, 2015.
now only employees with a high level of competitiveness will be promoted.
Starting next year, a mining and processing plant will be built in the Zhanakorgan district of the Kyzylorda region.
During the consideration of the bill, answering the questions of the deputies, the minister shared his expectations that cargo transportation between the two states will reach about 19 thousand tons in the next four years.
this is the most pressing issue among young people, and every year students are left without work.
a feature is an inappropriate game in the development of logical thinking and mathematical abilities.
like all religious believers in our country, Christians always support state initiatives aimed at consolidating society.
they took an active part in all the events that took place this year, despite the fact that they were attracted by older people.
renewal and formation of the deputy composition is a good indicator.
White and Spanish hydropower companies plan to master the joint production of sea mines.
The construction project of a glass production and processing plant in Kyzylorda got a place in the republican industrialization map.
In the National Plan, the main goals to be reflected in Strategy 2050 have continued.
More than once in twenty years, attempts have been made to bring oil to a key role in the global economy, but at the same time it goes as the main market product, "he said.
here you can speak the language and culture of about ten different nationalities and nationalities.
This was announced by the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan at a government meeting.
timely examination of doctors will allow treating tuberculosis.
The main partners of the enterprise aimed at import substitution and introduction of innovative technologies are the "Eurasian group," the "Sokolovo-Sarybay enrichment production association," the "river munaigas."
The head of state in his message gives priority to industrial and innovative development.	yerik sultanov attended the opening .	0,33
all this, in the end, testifies to our traditional good-neighborliness with the countries of near and far abroad, that we are a country committed to peaceful relations, unity with all states and ancestors, "he said.
To date, 3,300 WWII participants have been examined for medical care.
The Minister said that as part of the implementation of the State Program for Health Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Health" for 2016-2019, procedures for preventive examination of the adult population will be simplified in order to reduce the artificial queue in clinics.
According to the decree signed by the head of state, elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and extraordinary maslikhats will be held on March 20, 2016.
we support social programs many times and try to participate in these programs.	the commissioning of the object will be in february 2017 .	0,33
At a meeting at the Ministry of Energy, Green Technologies and Water of Malaysia, he announced Malaysia's readiness to provide the latest technological analyses and solutions in solar energy in the field of clean biomass fuels and the possibility of joint production of solar panels and their components in Kazakhstan, as well as interest in joint research in the field of renewable energy.
Kazakhstan's entry into the EAEU allowed to increase the volume of foreign trade with the member countries of the union.
automation of production processes will reduce energy consumption, reduce losses and emergency situations arising on water supply networks.
In its work, Tyr Mansurov eo relies mainly on the experience of the EU, since energy issues were one of the key factors in the EU's initiative to create it: in 1951 - the unification of European coal and steel, in 1957 - the European economic community and Euroatom.
the most important elements of this process are the withdrawal of shares of the company to exchanges and open trading.
Permits for invited workers from member States of the Eurasian Economic Union are not required.
in this regard, on the basis of subparagraph 7) of paragraph 3 of Article 58 of the Constitution, I propose the candidacy of the plotnikov Konstantin and the Kambara Khalid as a member of the Accounts Committee for monitoring the implementation of the republican budget, "said the chairman of the mazhilis baktykozha izmukhambetov.
in his opinion, mutual cooperation on the development of interregional cooperation is done primarily for the benefit of the population, ensures import substitution, and creates conditions for the economic development of the regions.
The main goal is to create a single system in the transport space of the union, "the report said.
over stable years, pre-crisis trade with Spain amounted to $3 billion, "he said.
The agreement provides for benefits and preferences that will be provided to official participants by the host party.
Recall that in order to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
A.Baimenov noted the importance of the upcoming cooperation and expressed confidence that the joint efforts will help to ensure a high-quality level of professional training of representatives of the law enforcement system, as well as to conduct comprehensive scientific activities.
The Deputy Governor of the region noted that this project, which will contribute to increasing the economic potential of five districts in the territory of the Almaty agglomeration and the development of the food belt in the region of Almaty, is the most popular and attractive for the region.
therefore, this country will be supplied not only with special high-quality vessels, but also with the latest technologies necessary for further shipbuilding.
As the head of state noted, previously the chemical industry did not develop.
The visit of the Kazakh delegation to Beijing was organized by the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan.
The religious summit in the capital made it possible to determine the general opinion of statesmen and religious leaders on the most pressing issues of our time.	having adopted the declaration , the religious leaders have a moral obligation to exert force for its implementation .	0,33
that is, 4 calculations from military unit 35804 and one calculation from military units 10810 and 27943.	the best crews will be selected at the military unit no.65476 in kapshagay .	0,33
this message, also published in the year of the assembly and the 20th anniversary of the constitution, is the twentieth anniversary.	besides , the delivered address was the 20th address delivered to the people by their president .	0,33
As of April 25 of this year, 24 objects have actually been put up for auction, of which 17 objects have been sold.	in fact , 17 units have been sold .	0,33
In accordance with the rules for issuing and registering absentee certificates for the right to vote, approved by the Central Election Commission, a voter has the right to apply for an absentee certificate giving the right to vote to the precinct election commission at the place of registration when submitting voter lists for general consultation and changing his place of residence between election days, "he said.
thanks to the capacity of the material and technical base, the company can deliver high-quality products not only within the city, but also within the region using its own bus station.
some of these works promote respect for the female subject.
The session is attended by kha members from all regions of the country, representatives of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, public figures, delegations of scientific and creative intelligentsia, international observers and a foreign garden registered in Kazakhstan.
The Austrian Republic is an important partner in the international automotive industry.	the agreement was signed in vienna on october 22 , 2012 .	0,33
The President of Kazakhstan noted the need to effectively carry out work on the detention and arrest of persons involved in terrorist activities in the Aktobe region.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed it is necessary to detain all people linked to the terrorist attacks in aktobe region .	0,33
Despite the unstable economic situation, all enterprises plan not only to continue work, but also to implement modern technologies and new projects, provide the population with jobs, and the budget with stable tax revenues, increase their production and market.	despite the current economic situation , all the enterprises continue to operate and even plan to increase their production .	0,33
But the price will be approved by a social private partner, "he said.
corruption in the understanding of citizens has become normal.
as the main advantage of the products offered.
- tell about Kazakhstan observers abroad.
in fact, without it, no State could develop freely.
the composition of the majilis of the parliament will be updated, the tasks set by the government to implement the reform of the head of state will be fulfilled.
During the meeting, the head of state congratulated all Orthodox of Kazakhstan on the day of gratitude through Metropolitan Alexander.
the Public Service Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, the Access to Information Act, the Public Council Acts have been granted status to support development in Kazakhstan.	as stated the maintenance of professional state apparatus will continue to be supported .	0,33
Also, the head of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Uzbekistan wished success in completing the current election campaign and summing up.	in 2015 , i was an observer at the presidential elections , everything was organized at the highest level .	0,33
Remember, they were all successful.	and it was successful .	0,34
special attention was paid to the introduction of a human rights ombudsman in Kazakhstan in the implementation of UN recommendations.	they have expressed their readiness to cooperate on the above recommendations of the advisory body and on the transformation of the un universal standards into the practice in tandem with deputy minister of justice of kazakhstan elvira azimova .	0,34
In this document, the head of state writes: "Peace. XXI century. "
you need to explore this holiday more, increase information about it, and then it will be widely promoted.
thus, patients can be in their ward and communicate with relatives.
Tokayev noted the importance of the joint visit of senators of Kazakhstan and Russia to one of the key areas for interregional cooperation.
The composition of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the V convocation played its historical role.
they expressed confidence that the adopted documents would ensure the prosperity of the thousands of homeland in all spheres of life.
the method that arose during the two-week distance learning is used during the experiment.
Indeed, the opening of a modern dairy workshop in the village, located 600 km from the regional center, was a special event for the residents of the village-region.
We are confident that the forum will open up new opportunities.	governor of the region berdybek saparbayev noted the importance of the construction of roads in the region .	0,34
The British film producer, who shot more than 100 films, for his part noted that Volvin has long been interested in Kazakh cinema.	in turn , the famous british film producer kent volvin said that he has long interested in kazakh cinema .	0,34
a positive solution to this issue will also expand the markets for meat and meat products.	the program has increased the share of the farms in 2015 .	0,34
At the same time, it is planned to open a camel milk processing plant from the south, having mastered the technology for the manufacture of dry powders, smoked (tablets), yoghurts, alloys, effigies and other shubat drinks from camel milk.	in this connection , the region plans to work out a plant for camel milk processing .	0,34
Governor of Pavlodar region bulat bakauov together with all went on a sabbath and took part in cleaning of Gagarin park. governor of pavlodar region bulat bakauov also participated in the litter pick .
the implementation of this action plan will contribute to the creation of equal rights and opportunities for the life and integration of people with disabilities, and will also positively affect the international image of Kazakhstan as a democratic, legal State, the main values ​ ​ of which are the person, his rights and freedoms.
Another advantage of happy garden kindergarten is that children from 1.5 years old are accepted in the subgroup.
The head of our state, as an active participant in the anti-nuclear movement, of course, was invited to him and received an invitation from the American leader to this summit, "said E. Idyrysov.
this is a common standard method.
according to the project, we will register the party list.
this will increase the production of the heavy industry, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this will save time on accusations and people, "the president said.
The head of the CHA secretariat continued to work in this direction and noted that the assembly had gained experience in this situation.
this will increase the efficiency of monetary policy operations and strengthen its impact on money market rates.	it will be focused on price stability and lower inflation .	0,34
currently, five of them are registered by the Central Election Commission.	according to his words , currently 7885 candidates for deputies of maslikhats of all levels are put forward in kazakhstan .	0,34
From today, at the end of the competition, it is necessary to think about how to use the built objects.	it is necessary to think of the use of the facilities after the event .	0,34
the state-owned enterprise Roscosmos, which is the successor to the federal agency, organizes many events in Moscow and other regions.
During the discussion of the bill, deputies made a number of proposals.
Deputy Director General of the MCP of the Almaty Water Holding, a strong dzhambulov at the first meeting of the working group of the technical council, presenting the concept of structural reorganization of the water supply system, noted that through the automation of water supply enterprises, losses in the water supply system of Almaty will be significantly reduced.
The logistical support for the activities of international observers is provided at the expense of the sending foreign State or international organizations or at the expense of the observer's own funds.
our country has developed a unique model of inter-ethnic harmony and interfaith dialogue, which contributes to strengthening the unity of the country.
because the main indicator will be the number of voters.
I, as a veteran, say that if you learn well, you only develop and promote the energy of the future.
In addition, based on the results of the tests conducted by all entities of the banking sector from the point of view of non-performing loans, measures will be taken to recognize and write off them until September 2016 to ensure the stability of the financial sector, "said E. Dossayev.
in addition, the agreement does not provide for the abolition of export customs duties.	in addition , in order to protect the domestic market the agreement provides for the application of special protective , antidumping and countervailing measures in accordance with wto rules .	0,34
Within the framework of the Days of the Youth Congress of Kazakhstan, leaders and representatives of youth associations of national and regional significance took part in the event.	within the days of youth congress there were several important events with participation of representatives of national and regional youth organizations , heads of regional administrations and agencies , university rectors , leaders of youth associations and non-governmental organizations , public representatives , chairmen of committees on youth education and enterprises of akmola region .	0,34
aa. Idrissov noted the great prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Unido in the field of vocational education, especially in the light of the statement of the President of Kazakhstan on receiving free vocational education since 2017.	mr. idrisov and li yong stressed the great prospects for interaction between kazakhstan and unido in the sphere of technical and vocational education .	0,34
the functional supplement provides for the introduction of rules allowing the use of the net profit of the fund through the provision of grants.	according to the contract , the above states have established an initial contribution .	0,34
the seventh - 5th anniversary of the Astana samit and the 40th anniversary of the adoption of the Helsinki final act and the transfer of the ecu council.	the seventh is the 5th anniversary of the osce astana summit and the 40th anniversary of the signing of the helsinki final act and the establishment of the meeting ( later ) of the osce .	0,34
thus, in the new composition of the national holding, the chairman of the board is a cheerful Shukei.	so , chairman of the board is umirzak shukeyev ;	0,34
and technical examinations are carried out on the basis of the state scientific and expert center.	commercialization offices will be established ,  the minister has said .
The second place was taken by a soldier of the Center for Military Space Programs, Senior Lieutenant Sergei Gavrilenko, the third - a soldier of the main department of informatization and telecommunications of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Senior Lieutenant Aleksak and a soldier of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Captain Sergey Kostenko.
In addition, in order to improve the system of vocational education, 6 basic colleges have been established.
these wastes will be kept in added concrete and meet modern requirements.
According to him, the center will study the mining and metallurgical industry so that specialists can freely master information technologies for the introduction of knowledge in workplaces, deep expertise.
It is important not only to advertise election programs on a competitive platform, but also what party can offer to positively solve a raised issue related to a certain topic.
refinery is a progressive enterprise.
Special attention was paid to large-scale public awareness-raising in order to ensure effective control and consolidation of society around the reform of the implementation of state programs.
But only after the completion of the land reform commission, considering this key issue, which was actively discussed in society, it was decided to amend the land code.
- For the election of deputies of the city maslikhat, it is envisaged to introduce norms for the creation of territorial councils of self-government of maslikhats to connect the akim with the population of the city within one and several constituencies.
this will reduce the shadow economic level of "wild capitalism" in the concentration of a share of cash.
Money worth 438.5 billion tenge was legalized, including 80.9 billion tenge by November 30, 2015; on 396 declarations 357.6 billion tenge.
employees of this organization monitor cases of violations of the rules for the transportation of passengers and goods by public transport, check the sanitary and technical conditions of buses, monitor the payment of passengers in urban public transport.
The military discussed the organization of the activities of the military police, as well as the provision of criminal prosecution, law and order in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also, on the facts of violation of the conditions for the election campaign, 3 residents of the capital were given preliminary warnings about the inadmissibility of violation of the law, "he said.
Today, in the building of the central apparatus of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the blue flag was removed from the dance.
The main objectives of the State Museum of the Centre for the Rapprochement of Cultures coincide with the plan of action for the UNESCO Decade for the Rapprochement of cultures
the reverse color of this effect affects each other, regardless of the geographical location of the land.
At the same time, 5,113 users copied the accounting version of the estimated programs of the resource approach through electronic signatures.
Within the framework of the meeting, the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the three countries discussed ways to peacefully resolve the aggravated situation on Nagorno-Karabakh territory.
the bill will be considered at an expanded meeting of the upper house.
for violation of the rules of conduct at documentary events.
various topics and issues of interest to potential investors were discussed, in particular, the foreign economic situation, the specialization of the region, the servicing of investors and the sources of their financing, the possibilities of industrial zones "aktobe," interaction and cooperation within the framework of the EAEU, the transport and transit potential of the region, etc.
Due to the fact that the head of state adheres to creative considerations of specificity and identity, the deputy corps should be strong.
It will involve such mechanisms as connection to the system, infrastructure, ground access.
In general, thanks to the direct concern of the head of state, sports are developing in the country, including many events dedicated to the training of athletes with disabilities.	chairman of the committee said that the paralympic committee makes every effort to develop active paralympic movement .	0,34
It should be noted that the transfer of military personnel of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan to full state pension provision is provided as part of the concept of further modernization of the pension system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030.	in general , the proposed measures will ensure the replacement rate and will remain at the level recommended by the international labour organization ( at least 40 % of the salary ) .	0,34
at an expanded meeting of the committee, the draft law "On the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the promotion and protection of investments" was discussed.
During the exchange of views, members of the foreign delegation and diplomats exchanged views on Kazakhstan's peacekeeping initiatives, noting the importance of this document on the basis of the fight against global nuclear weapons.
It will be attended by members of the delegation of the Majilis, headed by the chairman of the chamber, Kabibollah Jakupov.
To achieve this goal, the following objectives are identified: preliminary development of the manufacturing industry; increased additional cost and efficiency in priority sectors; increase of non-primary exports; maintaining productive employment; Creating a new level of technicality in the priority sectors of the manufacturing industry and laying the foundations for the development of sectors of the future through the formation of innovative clusters; stimulating entrepreneurship and developing small and medium-sized businesses in the manufacturing industry.
A large number of parents arrived at the district hospital, who came to a free appointment with senior specialists.
that would enable judges to focus their efforts on the most objective performance of justice.
I am sure that modern society is able to jointly realize goals and objectives. " tereshkevich.
According to the regional akimat, construction and repair works were carried out on 265.5 km of roads of regional significance and 1 bridge, in 2015 it is planned to put into operation 79.1 km of roads and 1 bridge.
thanks to this, we will jump into our Kazakh dream and approach the main goal of the middle of the 21st century.
I think that in the new message the head of state has developed an easy plan for the future, which will allow in the future to cooperate in many areas. i think that in the address the head of state announced a very clear plan for the future .
Joint statement by Kazakhstan and Japan on the early achievement of the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
this is even interesting in today's European conditions.
for example, the "soul" partnership becomes a large agricultural complex.
I want to tell the members of the commission that when choosing a person who has an advisory vote, I ask you to pay special attention to observing the norms of the law, "he said.
there is design and estimate documentation for this facility, approved by state expertise, "said a.masakova.
I am sure that the implementation of the agreements reached will bring Kazakh-Uzbek relations to a qualitatively new level.
architects and builders reconstructed the interior decoration and surroundings of the building.
ensuring rights and freedoms is a difficult task, but this decision will contribute to the transition of the republic to a new stage of development, gaining confidence from international society, strengthening fundamentally new human standards of life and peace and harmony in the country, "he said.
only after granting the right of a third-class driver.
Recall that the deputies of the Majilis of the parliament took the initiative to dissolve the deputies of the fifth convocation.
work is also underway to replenish three industrial and two production zones.
according to a representative of a public organization, on the basis of basic values, such as general history and culture, the identity and unity of the Kazakh people is developing.
Bokeida has long been considered an animal region.	the power production line is 550 liters of raw material for 4 hours ( a full production cycle ) .	0,35
Addressing the participants of the forum, the head of state noted that today 962 ethnocultural associations are working throughout the country.	besides , the events were also held within the celebrated for the first time the day of gratitude .	0,35
The modernization of the veterinary service of Kazakhstan in accordance with international requirements in 2015 provided 9 regions of Kazakhstan with the status of a world organization for animal health prosperous from foot-and-mouth disease, in May this year work continues to acquire such a status in all regions of the country.	however , the modernization of the veterinary service allowed to receive the status of a zone free from foot and mouth disease by the world organisation for animal health ( oie ) , work on the production continues .	0,35
in the last round, representatives of the parties participating in the debate were given the opportunity to appeal to their voters. to make it happen we need to support domestic producers , " he concluded .
the requirements for further integration of our countries into the structures of the Eurasian Union and the WTO are common for both countries.
this is a good indicator.
This measure is aimed at improving the quality of health services.
We see limitations in further quality education of young people studying in Kazakh schools.
in this regard, B.Sagintayev noted that holding this forum in such a difficult situation is aimed at improving the efficiency of business by improving corporate governance practices and is very important for our country.
in her welcoming speech, Mr. Abdikalikova noted that Zhabayev's poetry is closely connected with the life and history of the Kazakh people, the main thoughts in his works are combined with the nationwide patriotic idea of ​ ​ "eternal country" presented by the President of Kazakhstan.
at the plenary session, the deputies considered the protocol on amending the protocol to the agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on delimiting the bottom of the northern part of the Caspian Sea in order to exercise sovereign rights to subsoil use of July 6, 1998, deadlines will also be set for the preparation of conclusions to relevant committees in connection with the ratification of the Agreement on the Procedure for the Creation and Operation of Joint Investigative Teams in the Territories of the CIS Member States.
According to Asadov, as a result of the constructive policy of the heads of the two countries, mutual understanding and cooperation between the two states annually reaches a high level.
Recall that the Astana Economic Forum 2016 will be held May 25-26 of this year.
It is pleasant that in today's forum they not only speak the state language, but also take part in ethnic groups operating in public life and activities.	deputy akim zhaksylyk omar congratulated activists on the upcoming holiday and awarded valuable gifts .	0,35
all the conditions of the collective agreement will be carefully fulfilled, "he said.
At the same time, according to T. Duissenova, the implementation of measures to protect the health of women and men continues.
meetings within the framework of the day of vocational guidance will allow each university to create a comprehensive career guidance system with the right to conduct information work in schools.
Recall that the law "On amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Oralmans and persons with a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the legalization of property" entered into force on September 1, 2014 will last until December 31, 2016.
To control the extraordinary elections of deputies of the Majilis on behalf of the Commonwealth, all conditions have been created for monitoring the observer mission. for the time that we are here , we have made the main conclusion .
One of these works, which is carried out jointly with domestic manufacturers - exhibition work, where you will see new sources of safety.
Following the talks, the interlocutors expressed their readiness to strengthen relations in order to ensure the stability of the development of the Islamic community.
During the meeting, issues of using satellite resources from the participating countries of regional cooperation in this regard were discussed.
The head of the metropolis got acquainted with the objects of preparation for competitions.
In this regard, I want to emphasize that for the first time in Kazakhstan, the classical leasing company financed the project under the terms of the "lease."
that is, the creation of a complex for growing seeds of valuable fish.
Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Isaeva spoke on the issues of the organization of Islamic cooperation on food security created in Kazakhstan.
The main plenary session of the forum will be devoted to the development of the left bank of the Syr Darya River.
The issues of concluding a memorandum of understanding were also considered.
bankruptcy of companies in any developed country will not lead to the collapse of the industry or the shutdown of the enterprise with the release of workers.
The New Year always raises us all to new achievements, new heights.
At the end of the meeting, the secretaries of the central election commissions of the two countries expressed a desire to continue cooperation and exchange experience in the field of improving electoral experience and electoral legislation.
G. Abdykalikova will make a presentation on women's empowerment.
They were also awarded diplomas and letters of thanks signed by the Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, five more North Kazakhstan residents.
this reduces the facts of violations.
there are citizens and citizens who can inspire new ideas of our state, start business at a new pace, with new views.
we are ready to develop fruitful cooperation with Thailand in the field of tourism, agriculture, energy and transport logistics.
expenses related to the departure of candidates to the media, public election events, as well as transport and travel expenses should be paid exclusively from the funds of election funds, "said K. Turgankulov.
The results of monitoring the media, as well as international observer missions, showed that the CEC was able to provide political parties with equal access to the garden guaranteed by law, "said K. Turgankulov.
no one can escape the impact of global crises.
At the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017, we begin exporting gas to China.
The sor21 conference, which is one of the largest discussion platforms on climate change, is attended by more than 194,000 representatives from 40 countries.
According to the head of state, the main task in the field of public health protection is the introduction of compulsory medical insurance.
During the voting on the election of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, members of the CEC informed the representatives of the garden that the session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will begin its work on March 21 at 08:00 hours.	it is also planned to hold exit poll by sociological agency  medio consul , " customer research was made by club chief editors , which includes more than 200 heads of kazakhstani mass media , " - t. okhlopkova said .
The Commissioner for Human Rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan made a political statement on this issue.
thirdly, the early holding of one-year elections will allow the population not to be distracted by the election campaign and focus on country affairs, but now save an important budget on every penny.
the use of collateral increased from 3,700 to 16,200.
only a quarter of a century ago we reached many thoughts that conquered all our minds and hearts.
the company entered into contracts with the countries of Iran and Afghanistan.
The Aktyubinsk region became the second point of the republican train of the stock "The M G_l_k Ate".
In order to address systemic issues in this area, a special cattle and cattle breeding association will be established.
a number of issues have been resolved and expanded in our cooperation.
The mission of observers from the CIS will continue to monitor the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the first round was called "Specificity of the World Economy: Problems and Prospects."
The head of the region is restoring the activities of the biochim production complex of the investment fund of Kazakhstan.
The agreement allows brokers and dealers of the eurozone countries to draw among themselves.
Today, the plant is the only manufacturer of these personal protective equipment in the country.
in turn, the village of Orazmuradov thanked the Kazakh side for providing one of the central pavilions.
main metallurgical enterprises (Arselormital Temirtau White, XP Steel, Ssgpo White, Casting and Ferrum-Second LLP).
The purpose of the protocol is to take individual or joint necessary measures by the Caspian countries to ensure preparedness to respond to oil spill incidents.
participants in the bike ride started from the territory of the "Palace of Celebrations" and continued across the Kabanbai Batyr Street to the Capital Arena Square.
According to the recently adopted law, societies will be established in all central state bodies and each akimat.
I am sure that all deputies of the Majilis of the sixth convocation will successfully fulfill the tasks set by the leader of the nation in the future, "he said.
we love our native country, its capital, mountains and spheres, forests and steppes, rivers and lakes.
It is worth noting that from July 1 to 15, 2016, participants must submit documents for the competition.
the answer was given only a minute, and politicians have already given exhaustive answers.
The e-freight program, developed for airlines, cargo agencies, ground services enterprises and customs authorities, is aimed at eliminating the circulation of paper documents in the field of cargo transportation through electronic document management.
in the list submitted for election:
During the event, employees of the district youth center presented various interesting ideas to children, and also included a festive evening.
In turn, the Prime Minister of Cambodia noted that the signing of the memorandum will be an important event in the history of Cambodia.
During the discussion, the Vice Minister answered questions from health workers and the population regarding the transition to a new format of financing health care.
it is this model that enables all of us to implement our initial plans on an equal footing.
Director of the State Administration "Kazselezoprika," talking about the current state of the reservoir, etc., noted that all hydraulic systems of water regulation operate in normal conditions.
It was also noted that for the first time an athletic village will be built.
As the head of the department noted, the adoption of this law does not leave a socio-economic effect.
At the annual exhibition, participating countries will show achievements in the field of renewable energy.
Today, hundreds of countries of the world use the mjs mechanism in the implementation of joint projects, the creation of joint ventures.
Secretary General of the Commission Nikolai Bordyuzha noted that the list of organizations that are considered terrorist in member countries includes more than 90 elements.
terrorists were neutralized by the coordinated actions of the peacekeeping platoon.
conductors: Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Aydar Abzhakhanov and the dreamer of the Orazgaliyas.
representatives of government bodies and national companies made him one promise.
e.yrys and n.b. considered the agenda and schedule of major events to be held this year. ye . idrissov and nikolai bordyuzha discussed the schedule and the agenda for major events within the organization , in particular , the upcoming council of foreign ministers , " - the statement reads .
40% are women holding managerial positions in all sectors of the region.
in the overall standings, the 1st place among men was won by the junior sergeant 03811 a/b darkhan barlybaev, among women - ordinary yskulov firuza, sanitary instructor 66597 a/b.
This year, 7.5 thousand schools were attended by 2.6 million students, of which 336 thousand are first-graders who are throwing thresholds for the first time.
It was noted that such cooperation facilitated the mutual exchange of experience and knowledge among faculty with professional development students.
As the organizers of the conference noted, the purpose of the event is scientific coverage of the experience of the Kazakh way and discussion of the role of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev in the historical formation of Kazakhstanis.
we solemnly consecrate on this day those who, at will and professional duty, receive the high title of "defender of the fatherland."
According to him, these excise taxes will gradually decrease by 2020.
according to him, during the five days preceding the voting day, that is, from March 15 to March 20, it is not allowed to publish the results of opinion polls, forecasts of election results, other studies related to the elections.
and finding out who is responsible is also late, and is not the person in charge.
and the Peshnan confectionery store received a certificate in the category "partner of the city of Astana" in terms of the number of points issued.
The resolution adopted provides a solid international legal framework for concrete action to address the Syrian crisis.	the resolution provides a solid international legal basis to resolve the syrian crisis .	0,36
Taking into account the experience of Germany in holding an exhibition in Hanover, the availability in Germany of renewable energy technologies and eco-industrial innovations. Nusupov quickly considered all organizational and legal aspects and called on German colleagues to take an active part in the event.	given the experience of germany in the field of renewable energy and eco-industrial innovation , b. nussupov called german partners to participate more actively in the project .	0,36
what was more in this election than in the previous ones?
Then it will be possible to realize the tasks set by the head of state N. Nazarbayev.
the introduction of electronic air traffic will bring a number of advantages in the development of air transportation, will increase the transit potential of the country, and airlines and shippers will be able to monitor the movement of their cargo in a timely manner.
the transfer of agricultural land to private ownership will give a powerful impetus to the development of this industry.
This was announced by Governor of Zhalaguz district Bakhytzhan Bayakhmetov during a press conference in JSC "Information Center of East Kazakhstan region."
It is worth noting that the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the region allows you to create new jobs.
youth programs and projects focused on innovations, education, technologies and the practice of "the future," "green country," "" with a diploma - on the village, youth practice, "" momentum "are successfully implemented.
N.Nazarbayev noted that it is impossible to step back and lose these achievements.
The Supreme Board decided to adopt the document submitted and send it to the government of the ee state.
now the question is to focus, get started, practice your wrists.
In autumn, events will be held with the participation of Italian violinists and musicians.
According to him, the parties have a positive attitude to the agenda of the two countries.
No absentee certificate shall be issued to voters who wish to vote in another constituency or at another polling station within one locality.
Today, there is a mechanism for cooperation among member States in the field of industrial subsidies.
In general, it is planned to sign more than 10 memoranda.
During the report of Governor of Mangistau region Alik Aidarbayev to the population, representatives of the non-governmental department asked to organize training for non-governmental organizations.
today began the first presentation lesson.
there was no such pace and quality of legislative work carried out in Kazakhstan in a very short time.
campaign materials paid from the funds of the election fund are most actively posted in the media by the election headquarters of the Nur Otan party.
Improvement of prosthetics and auditory prosthetics standards and introduction of new technologies for their production with the participation of experts, manufacturers and suppliers of technical aids (compensating) and special vehicles; providing rehabilitation of persons with disabilities with technical means and appropriate services, as well as creating an accessible environment.
It also became known that the issue of transferring three remote district maternity hospitals to the second level is being considered.
now there is no such optimal situation in the business lending market.
A number of measures have been taken to quickly respond to any illegal actions at polling stations, "said M. Demeuov.
In turn, the deputy akim of the region noted that the akimat of the region is ready to hold this event at a high level.
We do not doubt that following 2016 this kind action will get whole-hearted support from all Kazakhstan citizens that successfully will overcome conceived together, - the chairman of the board of veterans told.
The right to nominate candidates belongs to the council of the assembly headed by the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan between sessions and currently consisting of 67 people.
By 12:00, I will provide you with voter turnout information.
the role of the American united states is changing as a superpower, there is an interzonal confrontation, which is replaced by various coalitions.
its results will be known in the future, and it will help to learn from each other.
also at the exhibition, the plant presents various types of components for manufacturers of aviation equipment.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU.
According to M. Bekturova, the Governor's Office of the capital is ready to cooperate with residents and guests of the city on other developing projects that provide comfort and legality of activities.
Thus, in January 2016, the intelligent contact center processed 64,230 applications, including 27,035 calls to operators, for 37,195 applications, important information (ir) is automatically presented.
We hope that the International Atomic Energy Agency will confirm that the legal issues on the creation of a bank of low enriched uranium on the Kazakh side have found a complete solution and will begin its large-scale implementation.
To do this, you need to write a statement from March 4 to 19 and present an identity card.
In general, more than 450 open data sets are currently available on the data.egov.kz portal.
As measures of recommendations, which are now being considered, it is necessary to stimulate demand for products through intersectoral cooperation by creating a joint venture with the EAEU countries and developing new mutually beneficial technologies.
a housing fund had been set up for that purpose.
According to him, by this time Almaty akimat signed a memorandum with 9 banks.
this rating is compiled as part of the University of Pennsylvania's Expert Centers and Civil Society research program to determine the achievements of expert structures and trends in their development based on an analysis of the activities of about six thousand "mental centers" in the world since 1989.
He also noted that this will increase the demand for products that will be in the long term.
Today, the committee has developed the concept of the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on competition issues."
therefore, the central election commission is responsible for its business at the electoral stage.
You are entrusted with legislative support for large-scale cases that radically modernize our country.
In the sky of our country's world, Kazakh youth are encouraged by the clear goals of an independent country and try only to move forward.
Therefore, now we want to consider comprehensive economic investments and turn the "kazatomprom" into a self-reliant, profitable plant.
he also coordinated the implementation of standards and trends.
Recall, on January 13, the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan took the initiative to dissolve deputies of 5 convocations and early elections to parliament and maslikhats of all levels.
In order to stimulate the turnover of market land activity and encourage economic charity from the land fund, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 2, 2015 "On Amendments and Additions to the Land Code" amended the land code.
Recall that in order to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
The historical and memorial complex "ate a az і", symbolizing independence of Kazakhstan, opened on the eve of the ten-year anniversary of the capital.
Today, this exhibition is one of the largest in the Central Asian region.
As part of the execution of the order of the Head of State, we will expand our roadmap, "said Duissenova.
In his speech, the head of state noted topical issues and set a number of specific tasks for the Nұr Otan party.
At 07:00, the city election commission of Astana opened a point for the election of deputies of the Majilis of parliament in the Palace of Peace and Harmony.
cooperation between the capital and bangkok traditionally develops against the background of mutual understanding and trust.	the 15th sitting of the joint intergovernmental commission was held on march 11 .	0,37
the people every day understand its importance and value and put in compliance with traditions of ancestors.	the more information we get as a result of research activities , the more likely this holiday can become one of the public holidays .	0,37
It should be noted that according to the results of nominating candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the parliament, elected by party lists, 6 party lists were nominated to the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	at the same time the member of the cec of kazakhstan has noted that virtually all regions of the country participate in the nomination of the candidates actively .	0,37
strengthened as a state and tightened the economy, undergoing political reforms.	moreover , solving their internal problems , the country participated in the resolution of the various conflicts in the former soviet union .	0,37
Akshi village is also building outpatient clinics equipped with modern equipment and intensive care unit for tourists.	also , the medical ambulance was constructed to serve tourists in akshi district .	0,37
This type of service is currently the active development of day departments for children with disabilities. this service form is actively developing branch network of day care for children with disabilities .
The main potential tourist product of Kazakhstan is ecological tourism with an annual turnover of $6.4 billion in the future. the expert council will be created for an objective assessment .
a. Mamin and Fr. Belozerov, in turn, noted the importance of the interaction of container services as a realizer of unique publicly available methods.
other applicants who participated in the award ceremony received special prizes and incentive prizes.
how effective do you think these measures will be to date?
In accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 52 and paragraph 4 of Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Majilis issues a resolution: early termination of the powers of the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan sklyar Roman Vasilevich, "said B. Mizukhambetov.
from. Recall that Volkov was the crew commander, as part of which the third Kazakh cosmonaut Ayymbetov flew into Earth orbit.
during the project implementation, a model of energy generation technology through waste generation will be formed.
Since 2017, it has become possible in the countries of the union to receive specific subsidies under voluntary agreements, "the press service said.
Therefore, I am sure that by accepting these awards, you receive a high appreciation not only of the head of our country, but also of all Kazakhstanis who respect the military person.
deputies work fruitfully within the framework of the CIS interparliamentary assembly and the interparliamentary assembly.
In this regard, 21 regulatory documents governing the work of the party were adopted, the provisions of the commission on the effective expenditure of funds from the budget and the national fund under party factions at meetings and maslikhats of all levels were approved.
in the official answer of MAUN RK:
In his speech, A. Mamin noted the importance of competitive development of thkd, which can become a promising reference point on the Eurasian continent.
According to the Central Election Commission, today the electoral funds of the six political parties participating in the elections received 519 million 132 thousand tenge.
In the morning, in the central district hospital, residents of the city and nearby villages gathered for consultations with highly qualified doctors of the country's leading clinics.
The summit will adopt a declaration of shu development until 2025, "he said.
Therefore, the speeches of our president at the forum in Washington have become relevant.
It is also planned to build a school and kindergarten in the region as part of a public-private partnership.
13 thousand people underwent retraining, of which 10 thousand were employed for permanent jobs.
specific goals and information on reception and servicing of tourists at EXPO-2017 were demonstrated there.
he also recalled the main provisions of the electoral legislation governing the campaign.
According to a new report published in the capital of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa, Kazakhstan's rating rose to 56th place on the 14th line.
a single tax and customs code should be adopted first.
It also provides for the establishment of a system of public councils and other consultative and advisory bodies that will deal with citizens' complaints about police actions that violate ethical standards.
One of the leading Chinese investment corporations "citic" is interested in investing in the livestock sector of Kazakhstan.
The report was prepared on the basis of the decision of 2015 on the impact of price regulation on projects, the press service of the commission reports.
increasing the Kazakh content, localization of production in the oil industry, the 56th step of the nation's plan, "that is, the implementation of the order to create Kazakhstani companies with major investors, the readiness of domestic oil service companies to join the world trade organization, as well as the anti-crisis measures of these companies have become priority issues in the oil service of the country.
They also discussed the preparations for the meeting at the level of heads of state in Bishkek this fall.
a working connection has been established between the headquarters and the Yesil district election commission, which is being considered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and documents for voting polling stations abroad will be delivered to this station, "said R. Vasilenko.
deputies of the chamber unanimously supported this proposal and decided to appoint askhat daulbaev as a member of the constitutional council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
experienced specialists in the agricultural sector and the head of the partnership will improve technological processes for the durable retention of land and livestock.
tourism and services, clothing, textile and food production, transport, agriculture, construction, technical and energy industries.
today, the share of local content of the total number of goods and services received by subsoil users of the mining complex is 58.5%.
The growth of expenses compared to 2014 amounted to 1.3%.
m. Kornienko and with. after descending to the ground, it should be noted that he spontaneously leaves the landing apparatus, as he landed on mars.
On the first day of the two-day forum, foreign entrepreneurs will visit the industrial zones of the region, conclude memoranda, and on the second day they will begin work of the main forum.
At the end of the meeting, Danial Akhmetov handed over tablets to children for the best indicator in study and participation in various sports competitions.
The Turkic Academy brought the estampage of the "eternal stone" in September this year during a scientific visit to Mongolia.
in this regard, a model of free vocational and technical education is being created.
programs for the creation and development of dairy products.
Following a meeting with local authorities, an agreement was reached between manufacturers and medical institutions to increase the Kazakh content in the procurement of goods and other works and services.	the commission has already held its first meeting dedicated to domestic commodity producers ' participation in healthcare sector .	0,37
however, it should be noted that most offences occur in public procurement proceedings.	the majority of violations are connected with the public procurement procedures .	0,37
More than 12.5 athletes from 205 countries will take part in competitions.	olympic football tournament will be held in other cities - belo horizonte , brasilia , salvador and sao paulo .	0,37
For the first time in the history of independent Kazakhstan, debutants dance a waltz to the music of the Kazakh composer Shamsha Kaldayakov and to the living voices of the legendary bibigula, which became the prima of the Kazakh waltz.	for the first time the waltz will be performed to the music of the kazakh composer shamshi kaldayakov and live accompaniment of bibigul tulegenova .	0,37
"I know that this is all our ancestors say, these are hands from one sleeve, from one bank," he said.
being a citizen of another state and assessing such issues becomes more difficult. i am a citizen of other country .
there are large mineral resources in the country.
body heating is maintained for 5-7 days.
This proposal, voiced by the head of state last year at a meeting of the UN General Assembly, is already supported by other countries.
the production capacity of the plant provides for the production of 120 armored wheeled vehicles per year.
Kazakh diplomats took part in the solemn procession of schoolchildren, after which they laid flowers at the busts of heroes on behalf of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation.
The "Nұrly zhol" program is a way to prevent unemployment during a crisis.
It will discuss issues about the course of the election campaign.
thus, the situation of confrontation can endlessly continue both in individual regions and throughout the global space.
Over the years, 1.5 million people were injured.
in his native village, he saw the state of the medical service and decided to open a center.
It is expected that the second line, which will be launched in order to increase production capacity, will begin work in May this year.
Opening the meeting, Abdykalikova noted that in comparison with last year's convocation following the results of the parliamentary elections this year, representatives of women grew in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
currently, 400 adult rats and more than 1,500 chickens are grown in cages.
under this agreement, our region produces high-quality products of places for the preparation of biochemical fertilizers and fodder impurities, and increases competitiveness.
in the days of the hermitage, seminars, master classes, meetings are held, important projects in the museum sphere are discussed.
the President of the Union of Russian Producers Oleg Soskovets in his speech noted that the main difference in the book presented today is that many of the information given in it is based on real events and actual data during personal contacts and meetings with the head of state.
nevertheless, the specialists of sstnb themselves positively resolved the technical issue.
The head of the Russian Federation spoke about the results of work in the field of trade borders.
According to the second-tier bank report, as of 04.04.2016, 639 savings accounts have been opened for money legalization totaling 483.4 billion. Tenge (including decided from the account 450.4 billion Tenge), including: 80.9 billion. Tenge before amendments to the legislation with the opening of 179 savings accounts by November 30, 2015; 367.0 billion tenge by submitting 412 declarations to state revenue authorities and opening accounts.
The head of state in his article "The Plan of the Nation - the Way to the Kazakh Dream" said that the land code influenced the development of farming. "
The Pavlodar delegation also held talks with the government of the federal state of lower Saxony.
It is worth noting that for the first time in the history of KJA, the participants discussed the prospects for the implementation of the detailed convention.
first of all - the code of public standards for mineral reserves of the Republic of Kazakhstan and mineral exploration.
voting at all polling stations begins at 07:00 am local time and ends at 20:00 pm.
successful foreign experience should be the basis for measures to involve the private sector in the construction and operation of prisons.
we will never forget this, "said the Israeli ambassador.
Also, within the framework of the industrialization map of Almaty, the production of an aluminum radiator plant of Skad ov LLP will be improved.
Kazakhstan did not support Russia's decision to recognize certain regions of Georgia as separatist.
During his visit to Almaty, the head of state said that he should become not only a financial and economic center, but also a center of innovative technologies, "said B. Baibek.
In 1945, Liberia was registered as one of the founding states.
According to him, 2015 kindergartens were built and put into operation in 17.
they are actively working to preserve and develop family values.
According to T. Suleimenov, the social protection system has great effectiveness for the EEO population.
According to the organizers, school students were selected according to the results of the competition.
they monitor compliance with the peace agreements reached.
the activities of the republican schools of the Young Guard are aimed at improving the quality of the selection of pupils.
Having got acquainted with the work of the center, B. Atamkulov instructed the heads of responsible industries to fully provide the institution with a video surveillance system, the latest medical devices and bring the building in line with modern standards.
Opening the meeting, the chairman of the board congratulated the members of the board who began the activities of the new stage of development of the Eurasian Union.
The festive event dedicated to Victory Day will continue at 7 p.m. on Capital Square.
this factor will have a corresponding impact on the Kazakh market.
at the same time, significant state support is being provided, the necessary conditions are being created to increase the area and increase the productivity of sugar beets.
The results of successful work on financing small and medium-sized business projects were also discussed.
The unique work of the Head of State - the aral capital, built in the heart of Eurasia, has become the pride of Kazakhstanis and a symbol of the development of our country.
a new code on subsoil and subsoil use has been developed, in which all major changes in the field of subsoil use have been consolidated.
this will significantly save the budget allocated for the conduct of election campaigns.
Note that equipment worth 573,866 thousand.
an agreement was signed with the enterprise (Ukraine) on the transfer of technologies for the modernization of mi-2 and mi-8 helicopters and the overhaul of engines for mi-8 helicopters to the Kazakh enterprise of the aviation industry.
V. Kosarev noted that party members hope to gain high confidence from voters in the upcoming elections.
At the same time, the Vice Minister noted that such cases are rare.
now the sabine at the XXXI Olympic Games in Rio will again go into careful preparation for the defeat of the group.
A great achievement in the framework of the forum is the possibility of building a glass factory in the regional center.
We always want to try new and interesting.
thus, not only the public service system is being modernized, but also the anti-corruption system, that is, focused on maximum prevention of corruption.
Kazakhstan maintained high dynamics of attracting investments thanks to domestic political stability and anti-crisis measures.	he has noted that our countries have a great potential for development of trade and economic cooperation .	0,38
the resulting negatives are resolved in a timely manner.	pscs kept votes .	0,38
At the beginning of her speech, Svetlana Zhakupova noted that Kazakhstan's ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities contributes to improving the quality of life of citizens with disabilities.	svetlana zhakupova noted that the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities will help to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities .	0,38
So, what are the monkeys really, in this regard we talked about this with Natalya Musabaeva, a resident of Almaty with several monkeys.	we decided to ask owner of primates from almaty natalya mussabayeva .	0,38
these problems are common to us. Abdrakhmanov appreciated the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, which this year marks 25 years.	in addition , work on the creation of regional structures in kazakhstan was carried out to counter emergencies .	0,38
to this end, 30-50 additional beds will be trained at each hospital during the international exhibition.	during expo the primary health care organizations of the city will organize around the clock positions of the health workers in the area of stay of the guests .	0,38
it is carried out on the basis of the development base at the haircut field of the Kordai region.	the project is implemented in kyrgau field .	0,38
The opening of this complex in Almaty is planned for the second quarter of this year.	opening is planned in the second half of 2016 , in almaty .	0,38
compared to what was done a few years ago, this affected only dubai.	what happened in dubai a few years ago affected only dubai .	0,38
to the right and left of the shanyrak is an image of a winged rose on legends.	at the top of emblem there is a volumetric five-pointed star .	0,38
In this direction, each Kazakhstani will contribute, not only overcome the crisis, but also give impetus to the development of our country, the co-chair of the Republican public cultural and social movement "Great Steppe Eagles" emphasized.
Indian Peacekeeping Operations Centre officers with extensive experience in UN peace and security missions in Congo, Mali, Western Sahara and Côte d'Ivoire, Lieutenant Colonel Singh Narinjan and Major Ranauat Bhavani arrived in Kazakhstan.
First of all, it is planned to implement planning and forecasting of all personnel processes using knowledge-intensive methods.
Thus, more than 15 South Kazakhstan athletes will take part in the Olympic Games as part of the national team.
To create a high-tech digital infrastructure, 90% broadband Internet coverage, the development of technology and scientific infrastructure (cloud/mobile, big data), the development of electronic payment infrastructure, easier access to information, automation of public services and tasks are planned until 2020.
During the meeting, the main areas of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the fund were discussed, as well as important trends (trends) in the development of the global financial and economic system.
we have formed and developed different schools since there was a basilkhan of castes, aubakir of ismails.
practical expression of the first stage: a restriction on state participation in entrepreneurial activities has been introduced, the activities of legal entities with state participation will be reduced by 47% in 2016, price regulation in regulated markets will be discontinued from January 1, 2017, etc.
According to farm managers who joined the cooperative, participation in associations provides a number of advantages for farmers, the main of which is access to guaranteed financing of spring field work (cedars) and the possibility of acquiring seeds, fertilizers, spare parts, fuel and lubricants at the cheapest prices through incentives.
and mandatory self-regulation is introduced by sectoral laws and is associated with the implementation of public services or the need to distribute certain services performed by state bodies.
it is open to mutually beneficial cooperation with the world's largest economy, which, in turn, is of great interest for the progressive development of the union.
members of the public association take part in the annual courses on the study of the state language organized by the committee on languages.
Samat Islamovich Ordabayev was relieved of the post of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
If 2006 enterprises participated in 52 year, today the commission selected 10 competitive enterprises in each nomination from 153 applications.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Defense, the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Colonel-General Saken Zhasuzakov took part in the meeting of the Chiefs of Staff of the CIS Armed Forces in Minsk.
they depict signs of Kyrgyz, Uyghur, Karluk, Kypchak, Khazar, Avshar tribes.
considerable attention is paid to transportation, and it is emphasized that Kazakhstan is a state connecting east and west, Asia and Europe.
In the administrative institution of the Central Intelligence Service, tax payments and administrative fines are checked.
the second gold yesterday was invested in the country's piggy bank by Alexander bunny, who performed in weight up to 105 kilograms.
- Now there is no information about nominated candidates, but from regions there is a need of citizens to know how to nominate candidates.
it should be noted that the activity of one in three adults in the world is insufficient.
The central prosecutor's office of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the central body responsible for the implementation of the contract.
Thanks to the policy of President N.A. Nazarbayev to build affordable and high-quality housing, people with a middle income will be able to get housing, "said the head of the region.
Last year, the state budget received 1.363 trillion tenge in the form of taxes and payments. today , almaty brings the half of the wholesalers , about a quarter of the retail operations , 6th part of the foreign trade turnover and 60 % of the portfolio of tier two banks .
Since last year, the employment of graduates has been controlled through the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, still not limited to the employer's certificate.
We also thank each other for their contribution to the development of our homeland on this day, "said the head of the department.
The protocol of amendments to the conclusion of the committee on the agrarian issue is aimed at ensuring the effective and safe use of the cosmodrome by the parties.
but in realizing these opportunities, direct financial ambitions from privatization have to be reduced.
According to the results of the meeting, the kairbek rostenbayev instructed the akimats of eight regions, together with the state bodies responsible for the directions of the "doing business" rating, to ensure the implementation of the project in their regions.
In general, to date, about 30 people have been involved in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, a new election program was adopted and the list of candidates from the party who will take part in the elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on March 20, 2016 was clarified
CIS heads of staff noted the feasibility of further holding international competitions on field (air, sea) skills of the armed forces of the CIS member states as a form of partnership between friendly armies.
48 applications (declarations) for legalization of property in the amount of 1 755.3 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Note that the acord, chaired by Secretary of State Gulshara Abdykalikova, discussed a change in the requirements for fellows of the "future."
however, due to falling prices for these products, the company's revenue amounted to 311 billion tenge, which is 35 percent lower than the plan.
in Zhambyl region, state service is provided by 25 territorial divisions of central state bodies, 14 regional departments, as well as local executive bodies of Taraz city and 10 districts of the region, state organizations. one of the main indicators of the quality state apparatus is the quality of public services .
all of them note that even before the opening of polling stations, a queue appeared between voters.
this is a council of foreign ministers in the rank of heads of state, which will be held in the fall, "the report said.
this kindergarten is being built as part of a public-private partnership.
according to him, special attention will be paid to the direction of reinvestment.
At the same time, it is very advisable to hold elections from the financial and organizational side, "said O.D.
external independent evaluation is provided by a commission to evaluate the effectiveness of state bodies consisting of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the presidential administration, the House of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the counting committee and public councils.
Procedures for changing the terms of the employment contract were simplified by law, measures were envisaged to introduce a system of self-government in labor collectives, a mechanism for collective bargaining between workers and employers.
During a special trip to the area of ​ ​ B. Negmashov. reported that camel milk processing equipment can be leased.
our owners and land users can enjoy the right to build agricultural facilities and the necessary infrastructure.
our Kazakhstani enterprises also found themselves in a difficult situation.
for us now and in the near future there is no more urgent task.
A woman with diabetes mellitus, after taking appropriate treatment, has the opportunity to bring a healthy child to light.
In addition to the growing city, concert programs are held in each region of the region with the participation of local amateur and creative groups.
In the context of the growing threat of international terrorism and regional extremism, the heads of defense departments emphasize the importance of coordinated joint actions in strengthening stability and security in the organization's space.
Zhambyl region green economy. "
not only Kazakhstan and Russia, but also the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
in addition, security measures in the postal sector will be strengthened.
children need to instill innovative thinking, starting from the school bench.
Having heard the complaints of the complainants, the Prosecutor General instructed to fully check the arguments with their participation, in case of violations, introduce acts of prosecutor's supervision and take measures to restore the violated rights.
most of the suppliers were local farmers.
At the end of last year, the managing holding Baiterek, together with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Investment and Development and the national bank, developed an optimal mechanism for paying compensation.
including 80% in rural areas.
Recall that in the regional neuropsychiatric boarding school, the foundation of which was laid in 1967, children with disabilities aged 1.5 to 18 years are being treated.
It is worth noting that the appeal also discussed the issue of holding elections to maslikhats.	according to him , more people work in the maslikhats .	0,39
then the president sets the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.	the holding of elections is a very serious point .	0,39
finished products - ferrosilico-aluminum - Kazakhstan "alloy," development of the Karaganda chemical and metallurgical institute.
Following the event, a business forum was organized with the participation of Hungarian companies.
for example, in the Turkisib district, the white modernization of the Almaty Car Repair Plant was carried out.
In addition to the allocated funds, we use the technical assistance provided by the bank, "he said.
Accession to the WTO opens up great opportunities for the economic players of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that all events preceding the date of voting, including campaigning, were held in accordance with the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on elections.
a well-known bibigul zhumagulova entrepreneur in the region raises more than 60 head of cattle in his farm.
At the end of the meeting, the tamara Duissenova wished veterans good health, life expectancy, presented gifts.
Korean doctors teach metropolitan doctors effective methods of managing government institutions.
According to the chairman of the ECE board, the powers that were implemented in the previous four years should be continued by the commission of the new composition at a high level.
installation work is underway to erect the dome, equipment is being imported.
This visit took place as part of an agreement between the "southern" and "double" industrial zones during a roadshow held by South Kazakhstan entrepreneurs in Turkey.
The President of Kazakhstan focused on the restructuring of the railway industry in accordance with the requirements of institutional transformation and legality in connection with the state plan.
law enforcement and security officials returned a large threat.
the city of Aktobe will become an agglomeration, in which 596.5 thousand people live.
we have created all the conditions, we have good salaries, there is development in work.
It should be noted that the forum of civil servants "Model of effective state policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev," dedicated to the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, was organized by the Ministry of Public Service Affairs together with the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan.
acting Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, speaking about the peculiarities of the works set in taimagambetovka, noted the dignity of the female object as a whole.
lack of credit resources will be a prerequisite for other problems of small and medium-sized businesses in the countryside - vulnerable technical equipment and small-scale production.
According to the curriculum from 5 to 11, more than 9,000 test questions were recruited in 11 subjects in 2 languages.
A. Volkov introduced the participants to the atomic project.
high-tech automated elevator capacity - up to 1,500 tons of grain per day by road and 2,000 tons of grain by rail.
5 objects of communal property to be privatized in accordance with the new plan have been identified.	however , due to lack of funds , the object was not completed .	0,39
According to him, positively resolved issues have also been identified in the direction of non-financial support for the activities of the chamber.	first of all we want to take into account the opinion of entrepreneurs , some issues we need to address in the next year ,  gani tasmaganbetov , the director of astana chamber of entrepreneurs has said during the meeting .
The regional center in the field of public service in Astana was established at the initiative of the Government of Kazakhstan and the UN in 2013 at the founding conference in the capital with the participation of representatives of 25 states and 5 international organizations.
By 2030, these indicators should become one of the largest.
I think that it is the young generations, with the help of their older generation, who will join the deputy corps, continue to work in various organizations that are in the competence of the department of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, and continue to create a successful competitive state, "he said.
these events will allow direct deliveries of products, as well as open access to the shelves of retail chains of the metropolis to Kazakhstani manufacturers.
The meetings discussed the use of the river railway network in actively attracting Russian export potential to Iran.
Candidates for judges receive a one-year internship in the scholarship courts.
Y.Babakanov noted that currently the potential of energy saving is a curve, so it is necessary to work hard to update the economy.
on the same height we will lift the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate".
among the participants were coordinated books on the investment climate in Kazakhstan and the country.
rapid and qualitative implementation of current measures, developed the necessary basis for the implementation of five institutional reforms.
by tradition, Nobel Prize winners are invited as guests of the forum.
Today, our compatriots, who have moved from the very beginning, work in the field of construction, education, agriculture and medicine, and contribute to the development of our country.
Recall that the election program of the party "Return of traditions to the village" includes a state program to increase the country's economy to a high, new level, and get out of the global crisis.
26 works were submitted for consideration by the commission on awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan 2015 in the field of science and technology named after al-Farabi.
The initiative of Governor of the region Berdybek Saparbayev was supported by Avtopark LLP and Passenger Transportation.
On April 29, a delegation of four countries spoke at a briefing in Congress, where she informed representatives of the legislative body of Kazakhstan about the economic processes taking place in Eurasia.
Ms. Pickering noted as a positive experience of Kazakhstan the possible budget savings as a result of combining the two elections in the current financial crisis in the world.
For example, by 2020, the country's energy intensity will decrease by 25%.
Such centers were created in each military garrison.
Also this year, work will begin on the supply of blue fuel to the region.
Due to the time difference, our compatriots in Tokyo and Seoul began to vote first at 4.00 in the morning.
on the basis of the company "agricultural trading," LLP "milker," "Eurasian agricultural holding," "Bavaria product."
- A week has passed since the head of state signed a decree on the appointment of early elections of deputies of the Majilis.
all this, thanks to the creation of additional jobs in business entities, increases the tax base and contributions to the budget, "said A. Tengebayev.
I believe that the safety of each employee's jobs, the safety of new jobs are the main task of each state.
a new representative of the Kazakh army with combat experience joined the participants of the unique competition.
the document also provides for the provision of domestic producers with a permanent order.
it provides an automatic call to the traffic service in case of an accident.
For the first time in 18 years of work, the protein was in this situation.
already now the "foreman's envelope" through the head of the train (properly issued and received a receipt) can send parcels to anywhere in Kazakhstan.
According to the minister, to protect consumer rights, the requirements for the sale, return and replacement of goods will be improved.
As he noted, the number of voters is growing every year, "we hope that the elections to be held on March 20 will be held in a democratic manner."
in Kazakhstan, we are developing our military-industrial complex using the most dependent equipment.
otherwise, the planet turns into a huge landfill of radioactive materials, in which there are no signs of vital activity.
because neither catastrophe nor crisis are in one state, nor can others have or affect them.
It is worth noting that, according to the president, the end of the year is the present of the crisis. the peak of the crisis will be in the end of 2016 .
also at the second stage, based on the results of the review, proposals will be presented to bring Kazakhstan's national antimonopoly legislation in line with OECD experience and standards.
because houses built by this method are built in a short time and become earthquake-resistant.
because the situation that can lead to the real development of the economy is a bank.
Chairman of the Communications, Informatization and Information Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan also spoke about the activities of the authorized body, and also noted the important role of the garden in the electoral process and informing the public about its progress.
today, representatives of large companies met with future specialists and signed special contracts.
speakers also voiced a number of proposals aimed at further improving legislation on the sectors under discussion.
we have the largest pavilion, 10 square meters.
On the last day of the Winter Olympic Games among juniors, anita-nagai in short track for a mixed team brought a medal to the team.
in the framework of which the rights of foreign investors in legal disputes arising from them are dealt with in a qualitative and fair manner.
Reference materials have been prepared for each category selected by the CEC.
I congratulate all of you on your overall victory in the last elections in conditions of equal competition, on your responsible activity!
Nұr Otan now understands that the main hope is the political strength of the state, which unites everyone and gives the way to a single direction, the development of Kazakhstan.
the greenhouse complex is located next to the power station No. 1 of the city of ekibastuz.
The memorandum was signed by the Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Group Aldiyar Kaztayev and Akim of Kostanay region Archimedom Mukhambetov, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
In the region every year the number of constantly engaged in sports increases.	head of the region congratulated the coaches and athletes and noted that such sports facilities will be built in each district .	0,39
because there are a number of reasons and reasons.	firstly , this year our young state will celebrate its 25th anniversary .	0,39
including parliamentary elections and the 25th anniversary of independence and expo 2017, which will be celebrated this year. "
According to him, during the campaign, the campaign of political parties lasted from February 2016 to March 20, 14 and published 8,769 election materials.
and the Road Map for Peace and Harmony project, launched in 2012, is under implementation
then the crane lifts it into the hold and spills grain in the ship's warehouse, removing the clip in the bag's mouth.
this will allow patients living in low-budget regions or having a low income to receive modern comprehensive medical services.
Kazakhstan launched this initiative, which received wide support from the UN General Assembly.
Following the visit, the delegation of the Kulelin Military Lyceum of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey thanked us for the reception, as well as for the continuation of joint cooperation in the field of education and education of youth.
if a person comes from one sphere, he will know to the end, "he said.
The armoured body at level 3 provides protection against landmines, improvised explosive devices, side explosions and ktg attacks.
The participants of the group, who worked in coordination of the Kazakh side, exchanged views on the way to adapt the global collective security architecture to today's challenges and threats so that the UN remains a necessary and reliable structure, and discussed the role of the next Secretary General in this process.
Advisor-Ambassador of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia Viktor Temirbaev expressed sincere gratitude to translators for making the book in Kazakh available to Russian readers.
During the years of independence, work was carried out to develop the profession of public service.
The territory of Aea covers thousands of hectares.
unfortunately, a safer and more stable world had been created.
Recall that today at a meeting of the government, the Minister of National Economy, Erbolat Dossayev, presented four areas of additional anti-crisis operational measures.
The meeting considered the current activities of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan and territorial election commissions to organize the election campaign.
Thus, 63,129 civil cases were heard by all courts during the period.
and the percentage of the dollar on deposits will be very low, banks go to this.
representatives of public councils and independent experts will be involved in this assessment system. "
in the evening, the guests watched a video message, which was specially shot by the descendants of the pride of the nation.
It is also planned to open 5 regional front offices "execex invest."
the average length of service for civil servants is 11.7 years, and the average length of service for a particular position is 3.5 years.
the family lives in Aktobe.
In his message, the head of the department noted that in 2015 in Almaty region on the basis of the distribution center of education "Ushkonyr" one of the examples is the technology of drip irrigation of land 3 0or5au.
for its design, a design based on new findings, as well as the most modern systems for servicing visitors, were used.
According to a member of the central election commission, on February 3, nominated candidates from the Nұr Otan party were registered.
R. As Zhoshybayev noted, Turkmenistan was one of the first to officially confirm its participation in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
for further close communication with citizens and other interested residents, such meetings will be held regularly.
The national calendar of preventive vaccinations of the Republic of Kazakhstan complies with the recommendations of the world health organization (hereinafter - WHO), and also provides for prevention measures against 21 infectious diseases.
According to the organizers, science will provide socio-economic development in all public systems.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors of Kaztransgaz noted that this agreement will allow to fulfill the instructions of the head of state on the gas industry of the country.
you don't have to do anything about it.
According to him, it is economically advisable to hold simultaneously parliamentary elections and elections of deputies of maslikhats.
For the first time since last year in Kazakhstan, at the expense of budget funds for more than 300 children, speech processors of cochlear implants were replaced and restored.
at the meeting, it is planned to consider the agenda of the upcoming plenary meeting and submit for discussion the draft law "On the ratification of the Agreement on the procedure for the creation and operation of joint operational-investigative groups in the territories of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States."
At the end of the meeting, Berdybek Saparbayev noted that he will participate in solving issues of business entities.
to improve the efficiency of monetary policy, the national bank will take measures to improve its loan portfolios, de-dollarize the economy, transparency of exchange places and foreign exchange transactions of legal entities.	in the interests of depositors the allocation of pension assets will be carried out exclusively on a market interest rate ,  dossayev said .
in Pavlodar the production of aluminium at the Kazakhstan electrolysis plant doubled.
I hope that if the elections are held and the meeting is reformatted, the number of entrepreneurs will increase.
an erroneous and knowingly false idea of the land issue is a gross violation of the current legislation.
the presidents of the two states that founded it.	he stressed that the united arab emirates are interested in bilateral relations with kazakhstan .	0,40
During the meeting, the vice-speaker of the Hungarian parliament also discussed with the March side issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation, trade, economic and cultural-humanitarian cooperation.	hungarian deputy speaker expressed hope that kazakhstan will take part in the kurultai in 2016 , which will take place in hungary .	0,40
During the discussion, it was proposed to create local joint projects and infrastructure related to the transport industry, with the initiative of Eurasian economic integration and the connection of the Silk Road economic belt.
V. Koreshkov noted that the manufacturer and his representative need to ensure product safety.
introducing unused land into the market turnover will protect the interests of responsible tenants and make free land an effective source of profit, "he said.
Since we entrusted Kazakhstan with holding this exhibition, I immediately began to work among youth and veterans.
global competition paradigm.
this also ranks fourth as an advanced indicator in the republic.
large criminal codes were hired, as a result of which discussion became the main activity.
Over the past 2015, 2 projects received loans under the subsidy mechanism of part of the remuneration rate in the amount of 13 million tenge.
Thus, funds will be raised for the construction of a new project, including the construction of 540 apartments in 3 houses.
the proportion of young people under 30 years of age among public servants is 19.7% (927), the average age is 40.9 years.
this, in turn, can attract inverters to the stock market.
no additional payments were relevant.
x. Camille noted that it was the third time he came to sko.
Together with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus in 2015, we created the eo and soon Armenia and Kyrgyzstan joined it, and other states are interested in joining this union and created an EU free trade zone.
K. Tokayev drew the guest's attention to the newly opened opportunities for cooperation between the two countries within the framework of the initiatives of the President.
To constantly carry out the work of the coordinating committee, the Thkd agreed to open the apartment of the permanent headquarters of the coordinating committee in the capital.
During the meeting, R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the preparations for the exhibition and the process of attracting international participants.
According to him, the construction of the factory will be carried out precisely on the basis of the model of foreign enterprises.
The deputy consultant of the Expo-2017 exhibition, Asanbaeva rose, said that during the international Expo-2017 exhibition, a tour of a hotel train in Kazakhstan will start.
The President of Kazakhstan as the first deputy chairman of the party noted that a. Myrzakhmetov fulfilled his duties, successfully held parliamentary elections.
because to form an anti-crisis plan, I attracted precisely the composition of the government, we jointly developed such areas as industrialization, the "ray road," five institutional reforms.
Currently, there are 20 airports in the republic.
reference: today 9 joint projects worth 698 million US dollars have been implemented with Japan: construction of a logistics terminal for car processing in Almaty, construction of a khorgos temporary storage terminal; " fortuner, "production of natural uranium; sulfuric acid production; Growing grains and vegetables using space data (potatoes and carrots).
the main activity of the company is the manufacture and production of high-voltage wire of the "as" brand.
At the meeting, the Governor of the region focused on the implementation of social facilities introduced in the framework of private partnership in the field of production.
In addition, it is known that the UNESCO General Conference 2013-2022 declared the decade of rapprochement of cultures.
As he noted, 80% of the construction of ktm was carried out and in September 2010 the first survey for the connection of the tokamak was carried out.
In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On additions and amendments to some legislative acts on social protection of the population" from January 1, 2018, a new procedure for providing social assistance to families with an income below 50% of the subsistence minimum is introduced.
the economy and the financial sector have become the main instrument for political pressure on competitors.
The American side highly appreciated the contribution of Kazakhstan to the exchange rate of the low-enriched uranium bank.
In the light of the worsening world crisis, our people have expressed great confidence in you.
the commission considers the regulations for the provision of state functions, monitors and monitors the quality of their performance.
Thus, on the implementation of the first stage, the Code of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan was adopted, a number of amendments were made to it.
the parties assessed the potential of the gold club and the search for copper and silver in the country.
Vocational education for young people between the ages of 18 and 24 is also provided without pay.
Mangistau is one of the regions with a high demographic indicator in Kazakhstan.
This year, about 200 graduates will be employed at 4 large enterprises in the city.
the delay in the delivery of this large-scale facility depends on the source of funding.
Kazakhstan in the XXI century is concentrated under one national shanyrak, "said D.Akhmetov.
bozumbayev rope also proposed to intensify the supply of raw aluminum to Norway.
this will lead to higher wages.
It is worth noting that the message pays attention to education and medicine, as it reflects what the future of education is.
mastering new technologies will allow him to take a leading role in Kazakh engineering.
we were often asked by many enterprises in the region to process paper.
Voting is organized at 7 polling stations from 8 p.m. to 9840 p.m. local time.
These and other aspects of the travel industry were discussed during this conference.
Not a single indicator has been achieved, "the minister said.
the working group to oversee the implementation of the decisions of the republican commission on land reform is supervised by the representative of the public association "Fate of the Nation" dosmuhanbyet of the Kushims, and the information group under the republican commission on land reform is a public figure of the Murat Aben.
both brothers of Sergei, brought up in a family of athletes, Mikhail and Timothy were also canoe rowers.
This meeting is held before visits of heads of the national company "azastan tem_r zhola" to Vietnam on May 16-17 the current year.
(wall panels, partitions (partitions) and trolley plates (plity prekrytia).
we have already discussed issues related to the monitoring of the voting of international observers.
Currently, the company is the only manufacturer in Kazakhstan of various models of transformer equipment and complete transformer intermediate stations.
It should be noted that today the festive events started in Aktobe.
we understand that in order not to harm the quality or volume of the educational process, the period of summer leave is postponed by about 2 weeks.
Intensive English language training is being carried out in order to improve the effectiveness of ktjuk.
Joint venture - Kazakhstan and Iran, successfully working in the agro-industrial sector.
all conditions have been created for the well-being and rest of passengers who have made long trips.
as part of our visits to Shanghai, Hong Kong, Moscow and Toronto, negotiations were held with the leaders of the central bank.
academics of Kazakhstan received a seat on the Council through the membership of experts such as the bolat of sultans, the sultan of akymbeks, the erlan karin.
The main thing is that there is a proposal from young people.
Hidden income and import issues.
The project was implemented with the participation of edb and, according to representatives of financial institutions, was successfully completed.
Kazakhstan is not moving away from the global trend and is changing the economy to a "green" basis, "he said.
over the past two years, the staff of the fund has been updated by 65% due to tightening qualification requirements.
In addition, a number of large projects with the participation of Turkish companies are being implemented in Mangistau region.
each student or start-up business receives the information he needs using business cases.
A $1 billion loan from the Asian Development Bank is granted for 5 years, including a 3-year grace period.	the loan is granted with a maturity of 5 years including a 3-year grace period .	0,40
Almost 105 deputies who took part in the meeting voted for the actions of the elected representatives in the domestic and foreign policy of the country and the approval of measures that should be implemented in front of the voters on the ground.	i am sure that the vi convocation majilismen have knowledge , will , experience and responsibility ,  - b. izmukhambetov summed up .
Twice a year we go out into nature, live in tents and show young people rest without harming nature, "he said.
The development model of any national economy has various characteristics characteristic of historical periods.
Among them are well-known politicians, public figures, athletes and art historians in the republic.
the main criterion for determining the winner when granting the right of subsoil use through an auction depends on how much the value of the subscription bonus offered by the participant is.
night vision goggles for night applications.
B. Fletz, in turn, expressed gratitude to those who invited the ecu/diakb mission, provided practical and organizational assistance to its work in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, I wish you all to accumulate knowledge and training skills.
Despite how rational and expeditious measures were to protect the saiga, Kazakhstan is very concerned about the repetition of last year's mass extinction of saiga.
its goal is to give a new impetus to the development of charity in the country, to promote the unification of all organizations and citizens involved in charity work.
the main thing is to get a military decree for the period of debt repayment.
dzhumadildaeva natalia vasilievna - director of the house of schoolchildren and youth in the city of Kyzylorda, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
for a rhythmic gymnast who alone represents our country as a contender for Olympic awards, this is the first Olympic game.
In the course of familiarization with the work of the center, akim of the region B. Atamkulov instructed to take children to such recreation areas as saryagash, of the same type, as well as to travel to historical places such as Turkestan, Sidar.
To date, 18 sports and recreation complexes have been built, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
let him now, on one ID, go to the bank and open his case.
after that, the chairman of the meeting nominated a. Daulbaeva baktykozha izmukhambetov.
the image and reputation of the assembly at the international level has also increased, "said kabibulla jakupov.
Speaking about inter-parliamentary contacts, the parties drew attention to the importance of deepening cooperation between committees and friendly groups.
this is done to respond to external tests.
agreement was reached on the supply of railway products by Kazakhstani manufacturers to Uzbekistan.
Of course, the sale price of privatized objects is important, but today we do not define budget replenishment through privatization as the main task.	as the ministry of finance noted the government of the republic of kazakhstan has formed a priority list of privatization of objects of public and quasi-public sector , consisting of the 65 largest companies and national holdings worth at least 5 billion tenge .	0,40
Voting is organized at 7 polling stations from 8 p.m. to 9840 p.m. local time.	82.44 % - in east kazakhstan region , 82.66 % - in zhambyl region , 73.68 % - in west kazakhstan region .	0,41
academician of the Academy of Arts of the Republic of Kazakhstan, honored worker of Kazakhstan tleuzhan batans, symbolist artist, қaza eli, "sculptor of sembigali smaguls, member of the Union of Artists of the Republic of Kazakhstan, monumental artist erlan sahipula and others.
Two years later, 30 experts of member states agreed on a draft charter document at an intergovernmental expert meeting in Astana.
it provides for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and a mission to effectively eliminate global society from nuclear-weapon testing by the total elimination of nuclear weapons in all countries.
what kind of activity the cooperative will engage in in accordance with its charter.
According to Dosayev, the anti-crisis plan contains all instructions in accordance with the 5 above main directions voiced by the head of state in a message dated November 30, 2015.
today such transitions are impossible, "said A. Kulekbaev.
The amendments introduced will allow for the implementation of a harmonized policy in the transport of goods and avoid double interpretation in the calculation of tariffs.
The organization's mission is to identify the most authoritative women around the world and make them a catalyst for global processes by investing their leadership potential.
The President supported the proposal initiated by members of parliament.
At the end of the meeting, the akim of the district noted that the newly created camel milk processing cooperative will provide comprehensive support to the akimat of the district and called on farmers to unite.
At a literary evening in honor of the poet, who became not only Kazakh, but also half a dozen.
At the same time, in his speech he noted that due to the current situation Kazakhstan tourism is beginning to gain momentum.
The forum was opened with a preface by the President of Kazakhstan.
we must do everything possible to rid humanity of the threat of war.
as well as the Taikazan relay, the action "in unity through mercy," in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
circles and fee-paying courses are organized in city and district coordination centers.
Now cadets of military educational institutions of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be able to continue their studies in military universities of foreign countries.
to do this, you must enter the corresponding digital products.
75 million tons were also mentioned yesterday at the meeting on behalf of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan.
Following the forum, a number of cooperation agreements were signed with Iranian partners.
These are projects that place responsibility on important business and positively affect the social life of citizens, "said the head of the region.
The head of state set a task for the country and each of its citizens, and its implementation will require joint efforts of the government and society.	according to him , in the address to the people of kazakhstan the head of state paid attention to the fact that during the slowing of the global economy , lower demand and prices of basic commodities arises there is a necessity for systemic and operational anti-crisis measures .	0,41
in addition, the bill defines the competence of the government, the national bank, the authorized body in the field of trafficking in precious metals and precious stones and establishes responsibility for violations of legislation in this area.	the bill  on precious metals and precious stones " gives priority to the right to the national bank for the purchase of refined gold from domestic subsoil users .
Libya, Syria, which was considered a prosperous country, was greatly worried about the Iraqi war.
The Minister of Defense also sent a telegram expressing condolences to the families of the victims.
In total, more than 900 voters from primary party organizations took part in 25 primaries.	the selected delegates represent 336 primary party organizations , the total number is 42 thousand 240 members of the party .	0,41
Regular container trains between China and Iran.	the parties also discussed the issues of organization and handling of container trains from china to iran on a regular basis .	0,41
A vehicle passport is considered a document after the release of each car or from the moment of its introduction into the territory of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed the existing aspects of bilateral cooperation, as well as a number of regional and international issues on the agenda.
Also, the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan established the amount of expenses of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected by the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, for campaign work financed from the republican budget.
including the processing of meat, milk, flour and pasta.
it is symbolic to begin its implementation on the eve of the 25th anniversary of the country's independence.
A month before the start of the event, 129 mobile group studied the work of 1835 objects of the region (215 - state, 1628 - private) and filled out relevant acts.
they will be built in demanded areas of the city.
In general, there are no reasons for gasoline growth in Kazakhstan in the near future.
hype requires constantly complicated technologies, and every year gas and oil become knowledge-intensive.
Work is underway on the construction of the capital's infrastructure, 3 billion tenge has been spent.
The limited liability partnership "Schuchinsky Boiler and Mechanical Plant" has become one large production that meets world standards with advanced technology in Kazakhstan. in our view , it is important that the head of state is reliant on the youth in implementation of these ambitious targets .
The Senate Parliament of Kazakhstan considered a bill on Armenia's accession to the agreement on uniform requirements for medicines and medical products. that is , registering the drug in one of the member countries of eeu , there will be no need to register them in other countries .
Also this year, the specialists of the center in the South, seeking the help of psychologists, form an effective methodology when creating psychological advice with sick children and their parents.
Awareness-raising with teachers and parents on the prevention of healthy diets and diseases of students.
this type of meat is low-calorie, dietary.
the company plans to export its products to Russia and central Asia.
because the assembly is the main operator for the formation of a nation of a united future, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
In this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev called on Iranian companies to actively use the potential of the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway.
Attention is also paid to Kazakhstan's economic victories, this is evidenced by high positions in the world competition index.
The head of state noted that in connection with the growing population of the planet, there is a constant demand for agricultural products.
improvement of parks and recreation places will increase the tourist potential of our city.
If these elections are held in accordance with democratic requirements, then the name of Kazakhstan will be glorified by another world.
The grading project provides for a fair assessment of labor depending on knowledge and experience, the company said.
erection of steel structures of buildings frames is made by 81%.
The 59 steps of the National Plan set the task of attracting strategic investors in the field of energy conservation through recognized international energy service agreements.
In this regard, the Secretary of State noted that the training of qualified specialists at the best universities in the world is of great importance.
the integration potential of the Eurasian Economic Union and the economic belt of the great silk road together with China. "
the first project will analyse the impact of informatization, urbanization and population ageing on the future of the workforce and the labour market.
we must quickly find a solution to what is happening in our country.
In accordance with this decision, the first 12 observers of the ecu/diakb mission were accredited to the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Under the joint program "BZhK-2020," the results of the Center for the provision of services to entrepreneurs and the implementation of non-financial projects in the capital are one of the centers of non-financial support for the Development Fund.
To date, as part of the project, about 35,000 Internet users have already decorated their avatars with a patriotic holiday symbol.
The Minister noted that extremist violence is a great threat to the security of the world.
now the company is interested in being in the Central Asian market.
The deputy group of the Senate of Parliament "region" is a voluntary deputy association created to jointly exercise its powers in order to promote the development of the regions.
He also noted that, according to the registration documents, it is planned to raise 147 million euros of sponsorship funds.
The global crisis is becoming more and more obvious and attractive for our country, "he said.
Karim Massimov stressed that frequent meetings at various levels will allow dynamic implementation of agreements between the two countries.
delivery of the first batch of domestically produced armoured vehicles is planned for the current year.
the opening of a new workshop, in turn, will eliminate dependence on the necessary products and reduce the number of foreign suppliers.
It is important that the bill defines priority categories of citizens for each of the active employment measures.	transfer of functions to employment centers has caused increasing the number of people , applied to the employment centers , according to nurymbetov .	0,41
Kazakhstan secured the state border on time.	for example , we will never forget the mediation by nursultan nazarbayev in the beginning of the nagorno-karabakh conflict .	0,41
in addition, it is planned to expand the powers of public consumer associations to strengthen their role.	in addition , the bill specifies the notion of  warranty period , " the " service life , " " shelf life , " " goods , " " consumer , " " competent authority in the field of consumer protection " as well as ensures effective inter-sectoral coordination .
as you know, there is an economic crisis in the existing world, it is necessary to innovate to ensure stability in the country.
Thus, during the training, participants gained practical knowledge in calculating efficiency and studied various types of work on various innovative technologies.
in addition, the lack of direct communication between the expert and the customer is one of the principles of ensuring anti-corruption activities.
On December 1, 2011, the day of the first president was celebrated.
at a public association there is a vocal and choreographic ensemble named after N. Litoshko.	the youth center includes permanent training clubs , where participants develop an active civil position on various aspects of social life .	0,41
Such an agreement was reached during the meeting of the Governor of the South Kazakhstan region of the peaceful chieftain with an investor from the united Arab emirates, Hassan Alshaban.	this agreement was signed by akim of south kazakhstan region beibut atamkulov and investors from the united arab emirates hassan al shaban .	0,41
now there remains the purchase, installation of the latest equipment abroad.	according to governor of orenburg region yuri berg , nowadays the region has more than a hundred joint ventures , kazakh-russian enterprises and their number is growing .	0,41
This was announced during the reporting meeting of the Governor of Almaty region with the population of the region.	for the accelerated provision of the population with the quality drinking water the centralized water supply was laid on in 60 settlements of almaty region within  ak bulak " program .
In the new organizational structure, the positions of deputy chairman of the board were reduced, the number of top managers was reduced from 16 to 9 managing directors.
to destroy enemy vessels, as well as against coastal facilities.
radical groups received stable financing and the use of modern technologies.
mailybayev daniel akarysovich, born in 1975, a soldier, an officer of the military unit 6655, a native of the Kyzylorda region.
Since its inception, the Republic of Kazakhstan has been a full-fledged member of the Energy Charter and actively participates in the process.
According to him, the customers of the exit-poll are the traditional garden and information portals.
since the area of ​ ​ the cherimagan landfill and the administrative center of this landfill are located in the closed city-priozersk of buildings and structures that have not been operated for a long time.
in general, we have great tasks, goals.
as a candidate for the post of President of the General Assembly.
1 . For an outstanding contribution to the development of domestic literature, as well as active social activities aimed at strengthening peace and civil harmony, the poet, public figure of the captured omarul Suleimenov was awarded the title "Hero of Labor of Kazakhstan."
in addition, the Tajik side is also interested in ordering the purchase of freight cars and rail beams from Kazakhstani manufacturers.
The idea of ​ ​ supporting startup projects in the field of shoba was put forward by the head of the capital at the annual conference held by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana.
The main direction of akims of cities and districts is the development of private kindergartens and public-private partnerships.
Within the framework of the second reform of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, the judicial system is being modernized and changes are being made in the regions through law enforcement agencies.
The Secretary of State emphasized that all events should be held within the framework of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence and are aimed at ensuring the socio-political stability of the country, consolidating society within the framework of the policy of the head of state, and strengthening the patriotic feelings of the younger generation.
preparatory work made it possible to hold primaries at a high level.
residents of the city can ask their questions orally and in writing.
In general, Kazakhstanis can use more than 80 different services and services through their mobile means.
they were transferred to an extensive steppe.
Public authorities have been given the right to urgently reallocate budget funds to achieve final results.
The "European Tour," recently created by the head of state, also pursued this goal.
In addition, the meeting approved the project of the Almaty poultry farm "Sunkar," located in the Zhambyl district of Almaty region.
The Governor noted that the main direction of the economy of South Kazakhstan region is agriculture.
He noted that Polish companies are interested in intensifying trading in bank products.
moreover, the crisis should not be perceived as final.
currently at intersections, work is underway to bring traffic lights into the state of agreed phase control schemes, the installation of road signs is being completed.
Elections shall be held within two months of the date of early termination of the powers of Parliament.
On behalf of the leader of the nation in the context of the global financial and economic crisis, Kazakhstan is rapidly implementing anti-crisis measures.
In accordance with step 57, it is planned to attract strategic investors with extensive experience in creating a tourism cluster.
there was no dry breakfast, there was no production of mixtures of such production in Kazakhstan.
The parties paid special attention to the strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Russia, which is dynamically developing thanks to the wise policy of the presidents of the two states.
The central bank has already attracted 18.5 billion tenge.
To do this, we are doing a lot of work to promote and promote EXPO-2017.
The State will establish minimum labour standards for guarantees and compensation to employees and will strictly monitor compliance by the employer with these obligations.	the potential of the collective bargaining will be strengthened ,  she said .
Participation in the Republican Olympiad gathered more than 700 schoolchildren from all regions of Kazakhstan.
According to Erbol Tashenov, director of the cooperative in Akmola region, thanks to the support of the Regional Grain Holding LLP, the Kazagro national holding this year fully implemented a project begun with preparation for crops and completed with the sale of products and repayment of obligations to banks.
The contract for the overhaul and modernization of the Su-25 type aircraft was signed with the Belarusian "558th Aircraft Repair Plant."
It is worth noting that the training of polling stations is at a high level.
Contribution to Expo 2017
first of all, it will be almost painless for workers and citizens of Kazakhstan.
The action will allow the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with participants working with electronic and electrical waste, to determine the most optimal methods for Kazakhstan to collect, transport, dispose of and process electronic and electrical waste, to participate in financing the collection and disposal by the operator of extended obligations of importers and manufacturers of electronic and electrical products.
On the eve of the bilateral meeting, E. Idrissov took part in the traditional meeting of the heads of foreign affairs of member states, in the framework of which the participants discussed topical issues of the organization's activities.
the Constitution is a document that forms the legal basis for State-building.
This summer, five more special sports grounds are planned to be installed in the regional center.
As part of providing the city with high-quality agricultural products, a set of measures is being implemented.
the purpose of this plant is to develop technologies and production from local production, "said A. Pupar-lafarge, CEO of the company.
laws adopted within the framework of presidential reforms laid a fundamentally new legal basis in the development of the state, economy, society.
the delegation of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" gave appreciation to the city.
Many countries have experienced not only the benefits of oil, but also that it can become a curse.
Currently, we are cooperating with partners such as Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, China, and are engaged in increasing cargo flow through the trans-Caspian international transport corridor.	according to the presidential program nurly zhol , the construction of kuryk ferry complex is carried out .	0,41
The meeting also discussed the course of measures aimed at suppressing terrorist situations in the event of their penetration into the state border zones of the organization's member countries.	the participants of the meeting discussed the measures for implementation of the agreement on cooperation on border issues in order to prevent and suppress terrorist activities .	0,41
we fully mastered the funds received and launched a plant for the production of an average of about 20 tons of milk per day.	it is described in detail in the address of president of kazakhstan n.nazarbayev to the people of kazakhstan dated november 30 , 2015 .	0,41
eight receiving and inspection mill boxes are made for receiving patients, each of which has a separate entrance.	at the entrance of the main building there is a room of online meetings of relatives with patients .	0,42
Each member of the Economic Council should clearly know its goal towards the development of the region and identify a project.	we are ready for a constructive dialogue to find opportunities to overcome the crisis and growth .	0,42
previously, the main goal of cooperatives was to meet their own consumer needs. previously , the aim was not to make a profit , but satisfaction of consumer needs .
Recall, on January 13, deputies turned to the head of state with a request for early elections.
I believe that these historical relations will develop dynamically, "he said, adding that relations and interaction should be effective for both countries.
the legal status and regime of the free financial zone of hako was also presented.
The adoption of appropriate measures by the central and local executive bodies arising from the moratorium for the next year, to certain rules of the land code declared by the head of State.
Note that the guide hertz is one of the most famous German diplomats.
Since then, considerable work has been done.
The head of the directorate a.abdualiyev noted that more than 60% of the facilities under construction are ready for the Winter Universiade 2017.
the bill provides for the introduction of amendments aimed at the abolition of duplicate and redundant permits, the transfer of permits to the notification procedure and the optimization of permitting procedures.
I served in the armed forces for 13 years.	it should be noted that female soldiers perform all assigned combat missions .	0,42
The first show of the center will be presented at the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Tadeh-2016."
for many years he has been studying the life and work of the great Kazakh scientist.
in addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 140 representatives of foreign banks from 29 states.
online sales will begin on June 10, "said A. Yesimov.
Today, Latvia officially confirmed its participation in the Expo-2017 exhibition, becoming the 70th country.
2015 was not only the year of kha, but also, first of all, the year of unity and independence of the country. we achieved not only the results that we have planned .
if elections are held and a new parliament comes, then it will direct all efforts to resolve economic issues.
This year the exhibition program is very dense.
according to him, if the voter's name is not on the list or if inaccuracies in the data about him are found, the voter may request to be added to the list or make the necessary amendments on the basis of the specified documents.
before entering into a contract with any government agency, the insurance fund must check its permits.
Currently, wheat is loaded on the ship "torik."
In this regard, the mining companies of the Kazakh side are not interested in moving around China, since there is a Caspian pipeline consortium, there is an atrau-samar corridor, a Caucasian atre and all this affects, "he said.
The work of the commission is supported by other international institutions, such as the Turkic Council, the Turkic Academy.
Foreign specialists are invited to improve the professional qualifications of English language teachers.
as a result, Nursultan Abishevich ensured the flight of the third Kazakh cosmonaut into space.
The goal of the action # I am to show my love and respect for the earth.
a preschool institution appeared on the basis of a cottage base and operates within the framework of the State Housing Service.
Therefore, we must evaluate what was done within the framework of the commonwealth, "said the head of the Senate.
I support the creation of this system to provide exporters with a situation so that there is no harm from falling product prices. the main link in the " production-export " should be stability .
The foreign ministers exchanged views on the prospects of cooperation and current conditions within the commonwealth.
this will ensure the stability of the labour market. it will ensure the stability of the labor market at the expense of projects for the development of local infrastructure , improvement of human settlements .
I am sure that Kazakhstan and Senegal will be able to effectively interact on a wide range of issues.
According to e. Nysanbayev, both sides unanimously declared the need to deepen mutual trade and economic ties, including, mainly, to contribute to the development of business in the field of agriculture.
Thus, the Prime Minister instructed:
The implementation of five institutional reforms in Kazakhstan and the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan also requires new situational and project approaches.
The work uses personal memories of the head of state.
The Slovak diplomat expressed many years of official support for the Kazakh side on the liberalization of the visa regime with the European Union, "the statement said.
According to the said resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 207 additional observers from two election observation missions, two international organizations and 29 foreign states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan cannot and cannot offer yet.
In addition, he instructed to pay special attention to the quality of things used in the spring field campaign.
During the round table, M.Sarsembayev voiced the tasks of voters participating in the election campaign, and also spoke about the competitive environment for parties and deputies of maslikhats participating in parliamentary elections.
Currently, 31 freight locomotives of the kz-8a series are deployed on the railways of Kazakhstan, which is one of the most powerful in the world at a speed of 120 kilometers per hour.
M.kul-Mohammed thanked him for his trust and said that he would make every effort and knowledge to ensure the effective work of the party.
The theme of EXPO-2017 "energy of the future" is to attract the best energy-saving technologies in the world, the development and use of new technologies on existing alternative energy sources.
During the negotiations, the parties signed a memorandum of understanding.
it was very joyful news for me that pensions will grow in Kazakhstan.
and the electoral process at this time is a powerful unifying factor.
In addition, K. Massimov and L. Zhenin agreed to further deepen the multilateral partnership, noting the great potential for increasing trade turnover.
I think that the new parliament will work in the interests of popular interest.
In addition, parliament can intervene not only in legislative, but also in personnel policy.
twice a month, members of the public council will conduct personal reception of citizens.
Today, amendments are being made to the administrative code so that the judge is active.
Last Sunday in the city of Aktobe, a group of terrorists disturbed the country's calm.
Because for many years Kazakhstan was in the top three world leaders in the prison index after Russia and Russia.
The goal is to start exporting electricity found at an alternative energy source.
124.7 thousand tons of sweet roots were collected from them, a stopping coke sugar plant was launched, all necessary measures were taken.
According to the Vice Minister, the best scientific achievement is the creation of a materials science center at Karaganda Technical University.
In addition, 321 Kyzylorda graduates were educated in leading Russian universities.
The head of state noted that the role of our country as a transit territory is already visible.
This made it possible to attract more than 50 billion tenge of private investments in the region.
Further, the parties noted the current life of the cement plant, launched in 2010 in the area of ​ ​ the moyynkum, included in the industrialization map.
events of subsequent days have ambiguous influence of various factors.
the parties reaffirmed their mutual interest in further strengthening friendly ties.
The NCDC Institute of Space Technology and Technology surprised visitors with the world they created.
the children were given sweets.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that this month the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan ratified the agreement on expanded and strategic partnership with the European Union and expressed confidence that this event will bring the cooperation of the parties to a qualitatively new level.
In turn, the members of the British Parliament highly appreciated the activities carried out by the President of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan recalled that last year Kazakhstan became a full member of the World Trade Organization, which will expand the geography of foreign trade and increase investment potential.
In turn, the block 100% provides preschool education for children from 3 to 6 years old.
The manifesto of the head of state received the status of an official document of the General Assembly and the UN Security Council.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
He noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan is still working on the implementation of the initiative of the head of state.
during the installation, the first batch of technical sulfur was obtained.
I believe that a lot of responsibility lies with the Ministry of National Economy and for what you are doing now, "said E. Dosaev.
granary with a capacity of 30,000 tons.
It should be noted that 1,500 people take part in the XXIV session.
In 2018-2020, prices will rise to $50 per barrel.
During the solemn event, the parties discussed Kazakh-Cypriot relations.
use the map to see how many people are employed locally.
this comprehensive plan is the development of an entire state, which includes our republic.
The theme of the 2016 forum is a new economic reality: diversification, innovation and the economics of knowledge.
what the essence of the five institutional reforms is is the creation of a competitive environment.
1 . life expectancy is estimated as longevity.
they will approach their control places.	head of osce / odihr mission thanked the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan for the invitation .	0,42
in accordance with the requirements of the law on elections, the village "and the relevant documents were submitted to the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
its character cannot be foreseen, as it can change dramatically depending on mood.
We are also engaged in identified printing houses.
the concept of an updated jury includes the qualification of judges for positions held.
at the same time, the member of the precinct election commission who issued the absentee certificate should bear in mind the voter's name in the voter lists, in the column "comments" - the submission of the absentee certificate, his five-digit serial number, the record of the date of issue and sign, "said m.sarsembayev.
In this regard, it was difficult to assess how important the activity of Kazakhstanis on voting day is, "said A. Tazhibeav.
Therefore, we will attract investors, "he said.
B. Izmukhambetov and K. muttonen noted that improving inter-parliamentary relations is a necessary condition for deepening and expanding multilateral relations.
you don't have to wait a year to renew the lower house of parliament.
Following the visit, B.Sagintayev instructed to continue work on accelerating the process of customs clearance and transit clearance.
according to the results of the review, obligations on the conditions and volumes of state support for agriculture with the countries of the union were considered.
A. Daulbaev noted that in the supervisory activity special attention is paid to the prevention and prevention of violations, in connection with which the work of prosecutors to explain the law has been strengthened.
93.6% of Kazakhstanis consider early elections timely.
In addition, for the first time, those entering the civil service undergo a three-stage selection.
foreign electoral process.
In addition, a member of the regional electoral center altynbek kattebekov, who was present at the press conference, said that polling stations were held according to the approved calendar.
the path of Elbasa "from the biography of the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
today we will sign memoranda of partnership with the regions.	today we will sign a memorandum of cooperation with kostanai region , as well as agreements and memoranda with producers of three regions : karaganda , kostanai and pavlodar .	0,42
the theme of the exhibition is the energy of the future. "
We believe that the figures given by the Central Election Commission will be satisfied with the Kazakh voters.
Note that this message is considered the 20th in a row.
over the past three years, we have increased labor productivity 4.5 times.
these are large production enterprises with a capacity of more than 1.5 thousand tons of fuel.
a mandatory probationary period has been introduced for the successful adaptation of new arrivals.
To control the extraordinary elections of deputies of the Majilis on behalf of the Commonwealth, all conditions have been created for monitoring the observer mission.	so , chairman of the central election commission kuandyk turgankulov sent invitations to the first head of the central electoral authorities from 18 states .	0,42
At the same time, the head of the department noted that the work is being carried out on schedule.
During the meeting, the main issues of cooperation in the preparation and conduct of events dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence and the coordination of the work of state bodies, the public and the media were discussed.
at the plenary session, the president of the largest Israeli Tel Aviv University, Joseph Klafter, made a presentation with 30 thousand students.
the document forms a single legislative basis for regulating relations in the production and circulation of precious metals and precious stones.
we ask the representatives of the three parties to dissolve the deputy group of the fifth session of the fifth convocation, and this issue was discussed in detail at the meetings of the three party factions.
and also for fixing river banks and reservoirs.
In his speech, Dyusenbaev announced the initiative of the head of state to create global anti-terrorist support under the auspices of the conference participants, the statement said.
so, he served in Brussels and Tunisia, on rent and Tanzania.
therefore, in February, the stations underwent training courses.
children complain that when opening the mouth, chewing, pain is felt, drought occurs in the oral cavity.
McDonald's restaurants in Kazakhstan will receive those suppliers of products that have been tested.
For the first time, the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will present the latest combat aircraft Su-30SM.
The problem of energy shortage in the region as a whole will be solved by the construction of a thermal power plant in the city of Taldykorgan.
to do this, logistics centers and a railway network operate in Saryagash.
however, the information obtained during the exchange is not provided to a third party without the written consent of the competent authority that submitted it.
At the same time, the Chairman of the Board of the DBK noted that the planned changes in the pension fund are justified.
these agreements provide for the establishment of an industrial zone; production of new special equipment; Increasing the level of consolidation; export.
pressure in Kazakhstan's commodity markets.
prohibitions and restrictions when attending events to individuals in order to ensure the safety of citizens.
now residents of the city will know where to turn in case of questions.
G. Abdykalikova noted that in 1921-1954 more than 3.7 million people were convicted, of which more than 640 thousand were shot, including representatives of the intelligentsia of Kazakhstan, such as Seifullin, Ilyas of the Gensugirs, Beibet Mylin, heads of Soviet people's commissariats, secretaries of the regional party committee, chairmen of regional executive committees, etc.
In his speech, Erlan Idrissov noted that "today's meeting will allow us to discuss ways to get rid of negative stereotypes associated with a long-standing interreligious attitude in the 21st century."
Kazakhstan is trying to create high-tech industries, but it is difficult to compete with enterprises using scientific technologies.
The III Forum is a convenient platform for the development of a draft government action plan for the modernization of the system of re-socialization of prisoners and the implementation of the 33rd step of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation.
A process of reconciliation and conciliation is envisaged.
despite many difficulties, the focus is on improving the quality of life.
to do this, a local police service is being established, reporting to local high authorities and local communities.
within the framework of public-private partnership, it is planned to build in the field of health care and commission a pathology bureau in the capital. in the health sector under the ppp it 's planned to construct a post mortem bureau in astana .
Note that the candidacy of E. Zhalmukhanov was nominated from our republic at the constituent session of the akiu general assembly, which was held in the capital.
this equipment has a high capacity and is also maintained for the transport of victims of difficult road conditions and natural disasters.
in my opinion, private clinics have the right to provide guaranteed care.
there are several reasons, firstly, we know the international situation.
they live in a single economic, political and cultural order, combining a single idea of ​ ​ the common goals of development, that personal income is inextricably linked to the power and profitability of the state.
Within the framework of the solemn event, the Chairman of the Presidium of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Timur Kulibayev presented "business" awards to the best entrepreneurs.
the main basis of the export industry should be stability.
The action of the immortal regiment became one of the main events during the celebration on May 9 in the regional center.
62,101 residential objects worth 562.5 billion tenge, 32,232 non-residential objects worth 172.7 billion tenge were received, including 7,598 billion tenge of commercial objects of 122.4 commercial objects, 25 shares of legal entities worth 4.7 billion tenge, securities worth 4.1 billion tenge.
the right of the owner having five or more percent of the shares of the company to independently or in general to submit additional issues to the agenda of the meeting of shareholders is also granted.
It is important to preserve its common history on the way to a bright future of the Turkic countries, "summed up K. Zhakpov.
We train domestic specialists in four domestic universities, "the minister said.
To date, 460 thousand hectares of land have been sold from two districts, all technical documents have been compiled.
I express my sincere gratitude to the deputies who worked and did a lot of work during the last convocation.
1 . session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation.
Example: 2007 Financial Crisis Prevention Programme, National Fund.	a high school graduate can receive free primary working specialty .	0,43
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his address to the people noted the early parliamentary elections.
with these measures, they will be able to familiarize themselves with the Volk-Ata complex and the Baikonur cosmodrome, see the moment of launch of the Soyuz-Tma19M rocket.
today, February 24, registered candidates for deputies of maslikhats will begin campaigning.
in addition, the fund forms a special reserve through a guarantee contribution.
in this regard, some party chairmen noted the current situation.
English language hours will be increased to optimize the lesson plan.
full implementation of the potential of the Constitution, namely economic achievements should be aimed at the benefit of the people, "said Viktor Malinovsky, a member of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
implementation of the project will improve the socio-economic indicators of the region: it is planned to create more than 1,500 jobs during operation, during the creation of infrastructure facilities and during the creation of industrial plants - about 1,200 jobs, increase tax revenues, development of related industries, seam.
The number and volume of campaign materials, the payment of which is paid from the funds of election funds, depend on the organizational and financial resources of a particular party, which allow the timely creation, replenishment and effective use of the election fund.
Also in the calendar plan, the CEC determined the period of election campaigns before nominating candidates for maslikhats and summing up the list.
This year there is a drop in outbound tourism due to various factors, firstly, it is a devaluation that stops the direction, secondly, in the Turkish direction, the flow is partially reduced due to the political conflict. the outbound tourism has started to fall due to various factors - devaluation and political conflicts .
this ship is the fifth ship of this class, created specifically for the border service.
As the official representative noted, the prosecutor's office did not introduce other supervisory acts on the facts of violations of electoral law.
including care and respect for the girl.
the system contains more than 500 different indicators both for the entire nuclear company and for private enterprises.
these elections contribute to Kazakhstan's entry into 30 countries of the world "The country of the great steppe, in order to implement the idea of ​ ​" Eternal Country, "chose deputies of the state, patriotic, nationalist style of the new format, which, thanks to the policy of the Head of State, will allow the world to show the descendants of the great steppe in the name of professional and intellectual development, achieve success.
According to its results, the Eurasian National University named after L. Gumileva was among the 400 best universities and took 371 place.
the organizers of aef - the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan; " Astana-Expo-2017 uk; Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan; National Engineering Academy of the Republic of Kazakhstan; national Kazakhstan Academy of Natural Sciences; Association of Scientific and Technological Organization of the Republic of Kazakhstan; " green academy "; nazarbayev university ; cavendish laboratory of Cambridge University.
The creation of a map of a criminal offense is associated with the 32nd step of the Plan of the Nation 100 specific steps. "
Recall that after changing the exchange rate of the national currency, the head of state instructed the government to consider an independent mechanism for preserving the savings of ZhSK depositors.
One of the important features of legalization is that money legalization is not income.
The most important aspect of judicial reform is the transition from a five-tiered justice system to a three-tiered system.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
Y. Shormanov noted the importance of youth participation in EXPO-2017 as volunteers.
Over the years, the Buhubb has actively supported gender equality.
Currently, negotiations are underway with potential investors on the implementation of 26 promising investment projects.
Also, 500 units of main and alternative transport will be launched in the city, "- said A. abdualiev.
as a result, the number of three-shift schools decreased by 20% to 80 schools, the number of emergency schools halved to 66.
Sixth, an important aspect of the new Public Service Act is that its rules of conduct also apply to law enforcement agencies.
before that, several works were done.
B. Mamytaliyev also noted that the real estate fund has considerable experience in implementing the anti-crisis programs of 2009-2011.
security and stability, peace and harmony are our main wealth.
According to the head of the enterprise, the wool processing workshop can process 100 tons of camels and 300 tons of sheep per year.
Sagadiyev noted that scientists of the country feel the responsibility assigned to them, and noted that service to society in this difficult period is a professional duty for them.
in general, these are favorite brands that have become popular among the population in each region.
Kazakh diplomat spoke about important internal measures in Kazakhstan.
Of course, we have a lot of joint work to do to achieve even greater success.
it's not a lot of money.
During the conversation, the Prosecutor General informed about the main directions of the activities of the Kazakh Prosecutor's Office, the activities of the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office, steps taken to ensure law and order, drawing attention to the fact that the protection of human rights in criminal prosecution is under the special attention of prosecutors.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that the country should strengthen its work to protect its interests abroad, given the complication of the geopolitical situation in the world and the increase in the threat posed by international terrorism.
Congratulating the participants of the forum on the Day of the First President, the deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region awarded active participants of the event.
competitions were held in the form of a relay race to win only by command force.
in Kazakhstan, young people showed great interest in political processes.
63 billion tenge is provided for the implementation of the program "Employment - 2020," - said B. Sultanov.
the bill will be considered in the upper house of parliament.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to hold the exhibition at the highest level.	the logo of the exhibition will be imprinted on the athletes ' outfits that they will wear in the new season .	0,43
these numbers are 100 specific steps. "
During the Stalin regime, 800 thousand Germans, 102 thousand Poles, 507 thousand North Caucasian, 18.5 thousand Korean families were deported from the far east.
the voting point is located in the building where the assembly session takes place, and opens an hour before the start of the session, that is, at 07:00 hours.	as she noted the sociological survey will cover more than 200 polling stations and involve about 250 people .	0,43
It is expected that a number of official representatives of leading military producer countries will take part in the event.	also , the sides held negotiations for the supply of defense industry products .	0,43
According to the speakers, today the issue of training of modern competitive, qualified specialists is important.	according to the speakers today there is an urgent need to prepare today 's competitive and skilled professionals .	0,43
Mikhail Piotrovsky accompanied such rare specialists as restoration, museum.	mikhail piotrovsky brought the rare specialists in museum field .	0,43
however, to solve this problem, a full report on updating the content of educational programs on the basis of an accelerated schedule is necessary.	we understand that the beginning of the summer holidays will shift to a later date in order not to suffer any volume or quality of the educational process .	0,43
Today, 48 people are provided with permanent jobs at the glass processing enterprise.	now we need to strengthen our own production by every possible way .	0,43
We considered what changes should be made to the higher education program.	they have conducted the detailed work how to prevent corruption at the higher education system of the internal affairs bodies .	0,43
In Yerevan, under the chairmanship of the member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission on Economics and Financial Policy, Timur Suleimenov, the first meeting of the advisory committee on social security of employees of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), protection of pension rights, provision of medical care and professional services was held.	opening the meeting , timur suleimenov noted undoubted importance of the advisory committee and expressed the hope that the decisions taken will improve the level of social security and welfare .	0,43
we also continue to train electoral organizers and participants in the electoral process, as well as to activate and adjust the voter rolls.	in addition , we continue to the training work .	0,43
foreign investment accounts for 25 per cent of total attracted investment in the region's economy.	moreover , foreign investments make one quarter of the total volume of investments .	0,43
according to the concept, each month has its own specifics.	according to the concept , every month has a singularity ,  the deputy governor said .
I think we will continue the Kazakh reform and see the fruits in the future, "the expert said.
It's very nice, "said the minister.
when transporting goods there it was necessary to pay at several stations of a number of Russian regions and Kazakhstan regions.
we plan to further develop this application outside of Kazakhstan.
In turn, the forum participants noted that this platform is another step towards the prosperity of Kazakhstan's business.
Trade and the transformation of products into financial sources are well established in the region.
This document is developed taking into account the main directions of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" within the framework of five institutional reforms.
an urgent issue of education at a new stage is the moral and spiritual education of the younger generation.
this is a sacred horde for the development of the language, culture of many nationalities and nationalities.
In his opinion, this idea is associated with the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "bright path" in conditions of instability of the world economy.
In addition, the head of the department noted that the creation of the fund has become technological, will contribute to the transit of investments by the Hungarian side.
According to the expert, parliamentary elections are of great importance.
there is phmz on the list.
the average annual production for the first 10 years will be 90 thousand tons of copper of cathode equivalent and 15 thousand tons of cathode copper mined from the oxidized deposit site.
To achieve this task, qualified specialists were needed to form a high-quality personnel reserve.
military aircraft of the c-295 type are maintained there.	in the future , the center plans more coverage for aircraft maintenance .	0,43
the main priority will be given to socially vulnerable segments of the population, such as the integrity and effectiveness of the program, said O.Taiganov.
The Kazakh parliamentarian congratulated on the upcoming 95th anniversary of the Communist Party of China.
this zone is not only replenished with interactive archival and museum materials, but also allows you to create collective paintings in real historical conditions.
qualified specialists from various industries gather in a medical institution.
It should be noted that this forum will be organized during the 21st Conference of the Parties to the UN Basic Convention on Climate Change (sor21).
chief physician B. Sheriev identified the main areas of work of the institution and examined the institution.
We are confident that new people, new ideas and new proposals will come to our composition, said Pavel Afanasyev, deputy of the Petropavlovsk maslikhat, in an interview strategy2050.kz.
According to D. Sherimkulov, the main task of the public election observation commission is to monitor the election process and all processes during the voting, to ensure that the campaign takes place within the framework of the law, to allow each citizen to choose independently.
The club of journalists at the regional assembly and the youth scientific and creative center of the Kazakh cultural center "Holy Father" are also actively working.
among them: Great Britain, Italy, South Korea, Iran, Japan, Germany, France, China and India.
On legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan the commission received 72,534 applications for legalization of real estate totaling 719.0 billion tenge.
all this provides a complete basis for the people to be confident in the future and live painlessly.
We can rate the elections yesterday as very successful.
the solemn event was accompanied by performances of a beautiful melody and thousands of twisted dancers.
In preparation for the elections, training seminars are held for members of election commissions.
A roadmap has been drawn up for the implementation of each of the 5 institutional reforms of the president.
on the legal direction of the land reform commission.
Following the talks, the parties agreed to continue the practice of consultations of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs on various issues of mutual interest to the parties.
the main role was played by the famous Kazakh actor.
Thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, our country has taken a worthy place in the world community.
Now there are 1,200 private bailiffs, which is 2015 times more than in the 1st quarter of 2 years, 4 thousand people are employed as assistance in the field of private execution, "the minister said.
we, heads of State and politics, have a great responsibility for the future of mankind.
the voter's application for an absentee certificate is attached to the list of voters and is the basis for its exclusion from the list for this polling station.
This year, the majority of applicants, or 69 small and medium-sized businesses, 44 medium-sized and 40 large enterprises, "the press service of the NPP said.
in the Auliekol district will open a "children's game room."
a strategy has been developed for this.
Representatives of the executive bodies of the city of Stepnogorsk, chaired by Anuar Kumpekeev, congratulated veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
tymoshenko Yuri Evgenievich - chairman of the Ukrainian Rada in Kazakhstan, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the V convocation.
This system will increase the confidence of foreign investors in Kazakhstan.
The head of state noted that despite the current situation, our country is in high-level relations with Iran.
the Kazakh population made a great contribution to the great victory in the destructive war in the history of mankind.
In addition, on one of the three open courts it will be possible to hold competitions in which stands for spectators with 500 seats are provided.
The national youth forum is an integral part of the development of human resources.	the event was held within the youth policy of the company .	0,43
It should be noted that 15 categories are exempt from contributions of the Social Health Insurance Fund: children, mothers with many children, participants in the Second World War and disabled people, disabled people, unemployed people, etc.	the mandatory social medical insurance is being implemented in kazakhstan within the framework of 80th step of the nation plan  100 steps " to implement five institutional reforms , the state health development program " densaulyk " for 2016-2019 .
the observatory is located on the southern slope of the mountain of Aragats 1490 meters high on the outskirts of the village of Burakan, Aragatsotn region.
sovereignty can be created only through understanding the soul of one's people.
this meeting is held before the reporting event of akim of the city a.zhaksybekova.
therefore, the inflow of investment in this area will have a great impact on the development of the country's economy.
Having familiarized himself with the history of the building, having examined the equipment of the laboratory, B. Kamkulov in an interview with the specialists of the center noted competent service.
It should be noted that Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in September of this year during the General Assembly of the United Nations noted that over time, the idea of ​ ​ creating a global network to counter international terrorism and extremism within the UN is relevant.
The process of updating the composition of the meeting is very important, said Alexander Gusev, director of the Institute of Strategic Planning and Forecasting.
according to the president, through the meritocratic principle, there should be a qualitative career development of employees of the state apparatus.
we are at the forefront of this movement and must scrupulously carry out our task.
candidates sent their questionnaires, and there it was necessary to prescribe why they want to participate in this competition, because it was a very tough and unpleasant competition.
This concert was timed to coincide with the festival of spring and revival, the celebration of "nauryz."
The Chairman of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
One of the main tasks of my trip to the Urals is to consider the further capabilities of our enterprises.
this is a right, but not an obligation, "said the head of the CEC of Kazakhstan.
long-term test approval is applied abroad.
this holiday will help all people show their love for the Motherland.
The essence of the innovative solution of kazagro is that peasants together receive credit funds without providing a deposit.
These events are dedicated to residents and guests of the capital, "said L. Susainova.
Andrei Kashechkin, in turn, expressed gratitude to the head of the region for his support.
as part of the Austrian parliament from 1994 to 2001.
their basis is aimed at a green economy.
top-mined water purifies the air and creates optimal conditions for tomatoes.
This year, for the third time, Kha will hold elections to the Majilis of the parliament of 9 deputies.
As for the requirements for the project, it should be ready for operation.
its products and technologies make it possible to clean sewage sources.
As of January 1, 2016, 35 loans worth 1 billion were issued. Tenge.
the European delegation was led by the Deputy Secretary General of the European External Action Service Helga Schmid.
specialists spoke about the pathological departments of pregnant women and infants.
According to him, the updated parliament has a lot of work to do to ensure the legislative initiatives of the president.
We also offer the participation of the united social and democratic party of Kazakhstan.
peaceful resolution of any situation.
This year, adjustments were repeatedly made to reduce trade.
The Iranian physicist Mohammed Nosrati, now living in the country, was noted as the most important tool for preventing war.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has repeatedly taken such reasonable steps, including an early electoral campaign.
This will create a single exchange space, the official website of the EEC reports.
The amendments introduced will allow for the implementation of a harmonized policy in the transport of goods and avoid double interpretation in the calculation of tariffs.
the document is aimed at the purposeful creation of copyright and related legal discipline on the right of collective management in the states of the Eurasian Economic Union.
in general, the infrastructure of the center of a special unit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs allows at the proper level to train special forces and increase combat skills.
the concept of patriotism has different meanings, it can be perceived by different cultural representatives.
According to e. Musetaeva, being a deputy of the 5th convocation, he raised health issues.
The latest types of construction and innovative materials are used in the implementation of the projects.
Holding early elections (including deputies of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan) and regular elections to regional maslikhats saves both time and money.
someday they can be cruel and cruel.
Review of judicial acts and cases relating to property interests and other matters.
fifthly, strict measures are envisaged among officials to prevent cases that lead to violations of ethical standards and give rise to corruption.
The main part of the event was held at the South Kazakhstan State Pedagogical Institute named after M. Auezov, in which about 1 thousand students took part.
Special attention is paid here to the creation of a school of mediators on the basis of regional friendship houses.
In 2015, the incidence decreased by 11.9%, amounting to 58.5 per 100 thousand people (in 2014 - 66.4), mortality decreased by 22.4% and amounted to 3.8 per 100 thousand people (in 2014 - 4.9).
Chairman of Kazgeologiya JSC and Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Geology and Subsoil Use of Kazakhstan Akbatyr Nadyrbaev represented Kazakhstan at the forum.
More than 50 children took part in Karis language lessons.
there are citizens and citizens who can inspire new ideas of our state, start business at a new pace, with new views.
Also during the visit, the leadership of the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan visited the special economic zone "National Industrial Petrochemical Technopark" in Atyrau region and got acquainted with the implementation of oil and gas chemical projects.
the parties supported the provision of a unified tariff policy for all their subsidiaries and subordinate enterprises, as well as the commitment to identity to shippers in the markets of the Eurasian territory.
- Today not any state can launch such a modern spaceport.
Poland is the main trade and economic partner in central Europe with a trade turnover of $1.35 billion.
in his opinion, capacity is a unique project that will save budget funds not only by improving the results of treatment of citizens, but also by more effective acquisition of medicines.
the unity of the people is the achievement of our region.
The opening of the mediation room allows the population to know the advantages of resolving disputes in extrajudicial conditions.
The question of the exclusion of certain cultural objects from State ownership is currently being raised. there is need for own program , own plan , own roadmap , and i ask the ministry of culture to work on this direction , as well as in librarianship and educational institutions , " nazarbayeva said .
members of the Central Election Commission spoke about the work done on supervised issues and areas.
In a region of about three million people, 30 service centres provide quality services to the population.
he also informed the meeting participants about the adoption of the concept of development of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan until 2025, the basis of the value of which is the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," the development of Kazakhstan identity and consent on the basis of citizenship.
participants will be presented with policy documents, strategies, concepts and technologies aimed at achieving energy intensity, wide use of renewable energy sources and creating an energy-efficient lifestyle.
now the issue of privatization of land is becoming relevant and we treat it optimally.
According to dsadm, this agreement is aimed at simplifying the procedure for attracting qualified specialists on the principle of mutual intra-corporate transitions.
benefits should be received by those who really need it, "he said.
Detailed information and legislation on public service can be found on the www.kyzmet.gov.kz website of the Ministry of Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the first two months of this year show how the situation is with oil prices.	the first two months will show .	0,44
we are currently moving to the basic payment and bonus system when paying wages.	it will depend on the availability of the disciplinary action .	0,44
In accordance with the calendar of the main activities for the preparation for the meeting and the early elections of maslikhats of all levels, which will be held on March 20, 2016, explanatory work is being carried out with the members of the commission.
All teams took an active part, showed their reliability, "the report said.
Recall, on January 14, 2016, by decree of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, the day of foundation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on March 1 was approved as a Day of Gratitude in Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that within the framework of the forum, special tesco gold medals and figures who contributed to Turkic science were awarded.
During the meeting, this program was presented taking into account the cost of international air travel, during which it was about the tourist potential of the South Kazakhstan region, which is the heart of the silk road.
according to the memorandum, the Expo 2017 logo will take place in the "astana pro team" shirt.
Algerian diplomats expressed interest in establishing inter-parliamentary relations and creating friendship groups in the legislative bodies of the two states.
We know that a number of results have been demonstrated in its implementation since then.
As part of the new social policy, the head of state on January 1, 2016, the salaries of civil servants will be estimated according to a new model.
The organizer and sole shareholder of the fund will be the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a large concert program with the participation of creative groups of Astana will be presented on the main stage.
of which ten are private.
they attempt to express their opinion in the most open and democratic environment and criticize the views of other countries.
The Palace of Independence of the capital hosts Industrialization Day, combining 3 events.
the employment roadmap is being updated with increased funding.
He noted that 20 thousand ethnic Romanians live in Kazakhstan and there is a Romanian-Moldovan association.
Another important point was that attention should be paid to one amendment to the law on advocacy. we will not have the term " arbitral tribunal . "
Holding meetings of deputies and early elections to maslikhats at all levels is the right decision, since many laws have been adopted.
In total, according to the sales schedule for 2014-2016, 312 objects are scheduled for sale.
because all these organizations are involved in the implementation of state programs or the performance of public service.
During the business format, it is planned to sign an agreement on the creation of the Kazakh-Spanish business council between the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan and the Spanish Chamber of Commerce.
a crisis is unfolding in the world, in every country, in every family there are not many problems.
Along with the formation of the Kazakh khanate, its specifics were individual.
According to a member of the CEC, candidates who can represent up to 9 deputies will be nominated at the meeting.
you have amazing things that the vast majority of Kazakhstanis do not notice.
This project will be a solid basis for providing personnel at small and medium-sized businesses, in developing companies, "he said.
On January 18, the head of state held consultations with the chairmen of both houses of parliament and Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
and we send the saved funds back to the enterprise, to receive raw materials.
this nomination provides for the activities of candidates creating working conditions that allow to preserve the health of workers in the process of work.
the Karis people are a people who have long been called their hard work, perseverance.
In conclusion, we can say that the CEC is ready to hold early elections at a meeting and to maslikhats of all levels.
A number of issues relating to the recruitment of instruments of ratification were on the agenda.
Following the meeting, Abdykalikova will give specific instructions to state bodies.
to this end, maximum measures will be taken for objective and open testing.
It is expected that 2 million participants will visit the exhibition.
because soon they will also have elections.
Also, when discussing the bill in the framework of the working group, a number of proposals and comments were received from standing committees, deputies, factions of political parties.
The event was organized by the Governor's Office of Yuko together with the regional department of the Ministry of Public Service Affairs of Kazakhstan.
Today we are opening a new stage in the development of the city of Shymkent, which will become one of the largest cities in central Asia, "said the head of the city, gabidullah abdrahim, at the first meeting on the construction of Shymkent City.
I want to emphasize that there is no talk of transforming the USSR at all.
I believe that every citizen of Kazakhstan should be responsible for his health.
the main source of income of the partnership is livestock and crop production.
the State will fulfil all social obligations.
In addition, currently in the Zhualynsky district, work has been organized to unite small farms into the agricultural production cooperative "Washing Products."
and on open days, everyone will be able to attend the exhibition.
In addition, 247 undeveloped lands with an area of ​ ​ 380 thousand 260 hectares were also identified in the Bataoz district.
further increase of efficiency at availability of an order.
in addition, within three days from the date of receipt of the application, it was possible to issue a court order without the participation of the parties, and the time for receiving the case in the proceedings was reduced by a month.
Then registration is carried out, from February 20, election campaigning is held, "he said.
Also in the region developed an action plan to find domestic growth reserves.
we hope for the support of the countries you represent, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the company's production is provided by 3 large plants equipped with modern tools from famous world manufacturers.
Along with leading representatives of world faiths, the forum was attended by the UN Secretary General, King of Jordan Abdullah II, Finnish President Sauli Niinisto, Eku, UN Alliance, Organization of Islamic Cooperation, Islamic Organization for Science, Education and Culture (isesko), representatives of garden, religious and public organizations.
organization of measures to prepare and attract the necessary efforts of the parties that agreed on the protocol and interrelated relations in the event of an accident at the Baikonur Cosmodrome.
Representatives of more than 600 state bodies and heads of large companies from almost 30 states are expected to participate in this forum.
graduates will be able to work in the civilian sphere after completing military service in these specialties.
this was facilitated by the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan to London. he gave a great impetus to bilateral relations.
Tokayev noted the importance of intensifying inter-parliamentary cooperation through the expulsion of parliamentary delegations, and also noted the need to strengthen relations at the level of chairmen of parliamentary committees.
Also, under the leadership of akims, a council has been created to attract investment at the local level.
the Community of Caribbean States is one of the most respected organizations in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
the progress of the project is monitored by many farms, except for grain producers.
The head of state voiced this idea at the 22nd session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, having familiarized himself with the history of the formation of Kazakhstan as a multinational state, "N. Shan said.
Obviously, in the upcoming pause there will be no easy load on deputies elected from political parties.
the rating of parliament is strengthened in the perception of society.
The Governor of the region also noted that one should not ignore the issue of temporary employment of young people in their free time.
the formation of an independent country, standing on its feet in twenty-four years, as a state equal to others, is the result of a coherent policy of our state and the mobilization of citizens of the country.
For example, today rice producers of the southern regions of the republic are discussing the possibility of creating an association on the principles of cooperation.
In addition, the district management plans to replace vegetable products imported from other regions with local vegetables.
the term hymn itself means "solemn song" from the Greek word "hymneo."
One of the most important areas in the implementation of language policy, which serves as the basis for the development of languages ​ ​ and the formation of language culture, is the education system.
the company produces more than 50 items of bread and confectionery products on the local market.
My decree created the Ministry of Public Service Affairs, in its structure - the national anti-corruption bureau.
these are party lists of the party "nұr otan," kdp "ak jol," hdp "aul," khp, zhsdp and sp "unity."
Almaty region carries out a lot of work on tourism infrastructure.
only then will you be able to become competitive in the world market, "he said.
it also includes an Islamic library, an administrative part, a women's building with a prayer reading hall, a hall for religious ceremonies, a men's part for educational groups and madrasa classes, as well as a workshop and shops.
We also work with the sports federation of Great Britain and they help us conduct training, prepare for competitions in Almaty.
According to the Vice Minister, the priority area of the oil sector is the construction of oil refining facilities and a competitive industry of the petrochemical industry.
we have extensive experience of cooperation with Spanish companies, most of which work in Kazakhstan.
the basic idea of the law is the realization of the constitutional right of citizens to receive information.
c .aa. expressed gratitude for the growing activity of Kazakh-Japanese ties.
a number of government organizations and facilities requiring transfer to a competitive environment.
the memorandum we signed defines concrete steps on how the organization will operate, "he said. nameplates.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the most important goal facing the overthrow is to create a set of measures to counter terrorism within the organization.
first of all, these are the primary organizations of 860, which united more than 5,667 thousand party members.
if we consider exports to Afghanistan and Pakistan, then there is a need for electricity. in afghanistan and pakistan there is a need for electricity today .
Within the framework of the industrialization map for 6 years (from 2010 to 2015), 890 projects were launched.
I am sure that in these elections the Nur Otan party will be supported by the people, "the head of state said.
in the central functional part, daily news on 100 steps will be presented.
such fees strengthen the combat skills of the sergeants of the battalion (division) and increase their level of professional training
As part of the project, a convenient interfax is open for each user in a multimedia format (text, picture, video), which allows you to upload the history of your good deed.
According to the Secretary of State, the main direction is the celebration in the regions where it is necessary to prepare a regional plan of activities for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of independence and coordinate everything with the Ministry of Culture.
Professional development of employees at least once every 3 years.
If inefficient land use is established, strict administrative measures will be taken, up to its forced withdrawal.
as a result, 2842 prices for medicines and 239 prices for medical products were recorded.
today it is difficult to take loans in national currency, and many offer to take loans from foreign banks, but this is unprofitable.
Easter, celebrated for centuries, gives our country only joy and special hopes.
in the near future, Afghan entrepreneurs plan to visit Kazakhstan's makoron plants.
this document is aimed at creating a system of guarantees to eliminate shortcomings in the field of education in the national legislation of UN member states.
During the conversation with the party members, we discussed all issues.
Today, 240 online services and services are available to citizens on the e-government portal, of which more than 56 are available through a mobile application.
In this regard, it is proposed to exclude this ban from the bill.
and the investor did not come to agriculture.
this will increase competition between hospitals and clinics.
According to the senator, environmental stability remains the most priority area of ​ ​ Buudb activities in our country.
Within six months, the oxidized ore processing complex is expected to reach its production capacity - 15 thousand tons of cathode copper per year.
A. Tilepov gave a report on the basic principles of the code of ethics of judges.
the director of the enterprise also expressed support for early elections.
for all messages, Kazakhstanis received comprehensive answers online.
the heroine of Alfia Karimova donna Anna loved the don.
Within three years, entrepreneurs plan to fully develop the allocated territory.
As part of the health festival, open days will be held in primary health care organizations: a "health town" will be created in places of mass accumulation of people, where free consultations will be provided to therapists, pediatricians, general practitioners, endocrinologists, pulmonologists in various areas of a healthy lifestyle; among young people and adolescents, "we value our health!" It is planned to hold various competitions and flash mobs, sporting events.
these sports and recreation complexes were built in remote rural areas, where previously there were no sports facilities.
as a result, the flight crew received experience of autonomous survival in the conditions of emergency abandonment of aircraft on directional terrain.
children, in turn, showed creativity.
According to him, in some cases the conditions for pre-election campaigning were violated.
accordingly, students of the Russian-speaking group are taught in the Kazakh language.
The head of state noted that the fund, taking part in solving the social problems of citizens, should cover the population as much as possible with its projects.
a working group of Korean managers and doctors will be created to train the chief doctors of metropolitan medical organizations.
this factor, along with the increase in the capacity of existing enterprises, indicates the growth of our region in such difficult times of the economy as today.
The purpose of the event is to contribute to improving the literacy of the population, especially school-age children, and creating conditions for the preservation and improvement of the health of students in educational institutions.
in late May - early June, if the weather is favorable.
It is worth noting that the supervisory board fisu met with Mayor of Almaty Bauyrzhan Baybek as part of his visits.
and this factor, in turn, is due to an increase in non-ferrous metallurgy output by 23.6%.
According to him, the society created at the assembly is working to unite the people.
according to him, in order to ensure independent selection and subsequent monitoring, an international council on science and commercialization will be created, which will include five foreign scientists and local representatives.
The Minister of National Economy noted that the measures taken by the head of state to implement will help support the economy.
in connection with that e. Idrissov held a number of meetings with colleagues from around the world in the framework of thematic discussions.
there is an opportunity to even take part in summer schools and score the highest points from testing.
The second day of the conference devoted to the discussion of the modernization of criminal procedure legislation, the Prosecutor General opened askhat daulbaev.
they have no outlets.
therefore, the global trend in education is gaining understanding in times of crisis.
younger than 14-15 years and older than 16-17 years.
Since independence, we have built more than 1,300 health facilities and more than 1,700 education facilities.
Ten programmes focused on high-level training of Afghan professionals in various sectors.
such a step would prevent a judicial situation and reduce the time for a judicial decision.
this increases operational efficiency and saves time.
Oishybayev noted Kazakhstan's readiness for open, transparent elections in accordance with domestic law and international standards of the electoral process.
the whole story of the opera comes without romantic pathos, which has become a favorite work of the public thanks to the veracity and vitality of the story of a small geisha, which is repeated today.
however, the diakb pays great attention to elections at the general popular level.
Bekkevold thanked Kazakhstanis for being invited by election observers.
The head of state noted that the current reforms being implemented are being created for youth, for the future.
carry out large-scale awareness-raising, mobilize people, unite in the implementation of all tasks.
we need to persistently implement the idea of ​ ​ a society of universal labor.
Chairman of the National Assembly of Azerbaijan fr. During the meeting with Asadov, the Speaker of the Majilis congratulated his colleague on the successful holding of parliamentary elections in Azerbaijan and the election to the post of Chairman of the Parliament, noting the importance of further deepening joint actions between Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
Currently, meetings of political councils have been held in party branches in all regions of the country.
Documents are received daily from Monday to Friday from 50 o'clock to 1 o'clock in the city of Aktobe, Tactakhtanov Street, 3 (city akimat building), 9.00 floor, office No. 17.00.
at the same time, applications from foreign participants, as well as guests of countries near and far abroad, are received daily.
only after all these urgent measures have been taken can the economy be stimulated, including through monetary means.
According to the chairman, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a Kazakhstani phenomenon, which demonstrated to the whole world the unification of different peoples and ethnic groups.
today in a sovereign country there is a special model of unity and tranquillity, which our ancestors have dreamed of for many centuries.	thus , the volume of industrial production was 523 billion tenge , which is more than last year by 3.8 % .	0,45
residents of two settlements of Kyzylorda region will now consume full natural gas.	on the same day the ceremony of launching of the gas pipeline in tasbuget village and kyzylzharma aul district was held .	0,45
I think that the implementation of plans to enter the 30 countries depends on the optimism of the population.
Today's exhibition tells about every period of Kazakhstan's history.	the exhibition gives visitors a unique opportunity to get acquainted with the works of artists of different periods searching of the national idea in the fine arts in kazakhstan .	0,45
in addition, there are some shortcomings of the current legislation in the postal sector, "said the Secretary of State.
residents of the capital when leaving the city receive an absentee certificate from the precinct election commission with the right to vote.
I want to recall that if one of them is an audit, then another is the appointment to posts, the dismissal of the heads of commissions in the field, then we can freely present our opinion to the local maslikhat.
One of them is the opening of a technical training center at Temirtau Polytechnic College.
I think the 2017 Winter Universiade will be held at its level, perfectly.
More than 700 German enterprises are active.
The grand opening of the first language school in Almaty took place on October 7, 2015 on the basis of the Al-Farabi Kazakh National University, where 38 fellows of the Bolashak program began to study.
A.Mamytbekov noted that wheat exports to Iran are growing in Kazakhstan.
this is a high indicator.
the aircraft commander managed to land the plane without a front highway.
already equipped with appropriate equipment and devices for the timely reception and delivery of emergency medical care, medicines, carts for transportation and an elevator.
During the meeting, teachers and other education workers were able to ask their questions directly B. Paparbekov.
the common border with the neighboring Orenburg region will make it possible to successfully establish communication.
In his speech, the Mayor of the city noted the social responsibility of the business community.
such sports complexes will be built in each district of the region.
D.abayev also noted the need to increase digital literacy among the population.
therefore, today's meeting is the beginning of our future relationship.
the rotation of officials of the permanent bodies of justice was also considered.
Pupils of the republican military school named after the sagadat nurmagambetov "zhas ulan" did not refrain from representatives of the older generation.
There are a number of goals for women in the country, one of which is joining 30 developed countries called the head of state, "he said.
in the spring, I composed a poem, translated it into Kazakh and released a song by the Almaty performer B. Rustem.
Governor of Kyzylorda region krymbek kusherbayev congratulated residents on the holiday.
The head of state will come and congratulate on such joyful moments and will present diplomas to excellent students.
· Note that the boo bank of the International Atomic Energy Agency is one of the results of global efforts to guarantee the supply of nuclear fuel to countries in the event of instability of the open market or other supply mechanisms for low-enriched uranium;
During the meeting, the project for the construction of a plant for the production of high-quality lime in the Osakarovsky district was discussed in detail.
The new legislative testing program establishes general legislative acts, as before, and not for each law.
Governor of the region of Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev took part in the solemn event.
in the Shymkent school of rhythmic gymnastics "Alia Yusupova" passed the championship of the Republic of Kazakhstan on hand-to-hand combat among men and women.
These positions were reflected not only in the 12-year history of the forum, but also in the final declaration, which became an unprecedented document of many international events dedicated to the settlement of bloody conflicts, "said K. Tokayev.
Over 2 years of implementation of the general program, 4 thousand jobs were created in the region, of which 3 thousand were created.
Akim of stepnogorsk anuar kumpekeyev informed the head of the region that in the near future within the program a network of private kindergartens will be opened.
At the same time, as the expert noted, a key role was assigned in building a common Kazakh civic identity.
provision of technical rehabilitation equipment to persons with disabilities is the main mechanism for their social adaptation.
playgrounds have been created on the territory of the institution.
Akim of Akmola region took part in the event. Kulagin and the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the "daryn" group.
at the end of the meeting, Turgankulov wished the successful work of the observer mission from the commonwealth of independent states.
In order to increase the energy potential of the region, it was decided to build 180 mW and 450 gcal/h.
wheat is delivered to the port of whitewash in large bags - big runs - 10 and 20 tons by road.	kazakhstan 's sea gates do not freeze in winter which provides year-round navigation .	0,45
During the visit to the facilities, the head of the region got acquainted with the regional speeding center.	as reported , akim completed the visit in aids-center .	0,45
At the end of the working trip, the Secretary of State met with the UN Secretary General.	in conclusion of her visit to the usa she met with secretary general of the un ban ki-moon .	0,45
education can become an effective weapon in the fight against radical thinking.
it is believed that this holiday inherited Turkic-speaking countries from children who bowed to it.
because it is in the interests of all states, and often in their economies, countries that pay to the oil and gas sectors, "said Abbas:
The issue of ensuring the working conditions of district inspectors, mainly in rural areas, has not been fully resolved. the main focus in the fight against crime is its prevention .
According to the report, as of April 15, 2016, according to the code 206110 "fee for the legalization of property," the budget actually received 3.4 billion tenge.
the guarantee of a refund has the responsibility of the members of the cooperative to each other.
the last agreement we signed took place next to the Cuban State.
The person who received the weapon and committed the murder must be sentenced to death.
- There are enough inter-ethnic conflicts in the recent history of post-Soviet countries.
the main activity of the plant is the production of units and units of aviation equipment.
Vice Minister of Energy Magzum Myrzagaliyev will take part in the press conference.
this showed that the city has established work on the production of milk and dairy products.
Over the past ten years, the birth rate here has doubled, from 4 thousand to 10 thousand people, more than 15 thousand mothers and children take treatment of varying severity.
this is necessary to take into account the votes of each Kazakhstani.
issues of preservation of oil production level and development of Kazakhstan and local content in Kyzylorda region.
It is planned to implement 143 projects and create 11.4 jobs.
In addition, a minute of silence in honor of the dead was announced in all units of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and military units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In order to remove the various barriers encountered in developing these norms, it was decided to review national legislation at the national level.
The review focused on a comparative assessment of the agricultural performance of public authorities in different economic settings.
In addition, according to V. Lossertales, EXPO-2017 gives a good opportunity to express its thoughts.
Filming took place in Kazakhstan and Russia for about 4 months.
Following the meeting, a number of documents were signed on joint work in protecting the state borders of the Shu member states.
tourism potential will allow harmoniously entering the international tourism market and achieving a high level of tourism development in the country.
The plant for the manufacture of medical products in the city of Semipalatinsk produces spark-component laser needles of trihedral production.
According to Viktor Novikov, Chairman of the Council of Veterans of the City of Baikonur, Nurgaliyeva has been living in Baikonur for 30 years.
today, the younger generation does not know what difficulties their parents are experiencing.
this is a great achievement.
On March 22, the Khabar channel will be able to watch the Kazakh Ara.
The report of the final meeting will be determined at a press conference on March 21.
I am often asked how dangerous it is.
a large package of agreements in the field of import and export of agricultural products has been signed.
This year, 21 girls are trying a garden.
Currently, as part of the construction of 500sq ekibastuz - family - excitement, 520.8 km of networks with a total length of 500 sq 600 km have been built. as for chinese direction , we need large amounts of electricity supply .
- This holiday was very strong among the Hungarians, and after the official adoption of Christianity, the celebration of this holiday was postponed for several days.
the swearing in of those newly called up this fall took place from November 14 to December 6.
In the morning, an ice rink with an area of ​ ​ 4 thousand square meters opened on the Komsomol island.
transnational corporation carmeuse group, which has dozens of plants around the world and is considered a leader in the production of lime for the purposes of metallurgical production.
The head of the Senate suggested that the Azerbaijani leader develop the n.nazarbayev program "Peace. XXI century. "
Today, places for trade are provided on the street, which helps SMEs develop further.
Within the framework of the event, the presentation of technologies and products in the field of technology and logistics of railway transport took place.
at the same time, it creates the conditions for overcoming objective difficulties related to the current impact of the global crisis.
every day delivers reports of terrorist acts and dozens of deaths.
K. Dzhakupov noted that Hungary is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan in eastern Europe and called on Hungarian entrepreneurs to take an active part in the implementation of innovative and industrial projects in Kazakhstan.
At the end of the meeting, it was noted that senators are ready to assist in solving pressing issues that arise during the implementation of tasks that require legislative support.
the upcoming international exhibition will present the weapons and equipment of large global companies in the defense industry.
the high quality and established system of medical trains allowed some people to identify unexpected types of diseases.
In this regard, we are solving the problems of three regular shifts and emergency schools, "said E. Sagadiev.
A representative of the African College Sports Federation spoke about the importance of participating in competitions in the Aligaves Cabena.
Director of the Consul of the Slovak Foreign Ministry Igor Pocoyny gave a good assessment of the achievements of Kazakhstanis in this area.	the slovak diplomat expressed official support to longstanding efforts of kazakhstan in liberalization of the visa regime with the eu .	0,45
Of course, the initiative to dissolve the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections was initiated due to the circumstances in the country.
we support the initiative to hold early elections at the meeting on behalf of the members of our organization.
In addition, most of the training seminars for election commissions were held.
Kazakhstan and India cooperate closely within the framework of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the preservation of the national cultural heritage in the region and their inclusion in the World Heritage List of the Enesco.
In addition, on the basis of the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated March 10, 2016 No. 11/755, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan canceled the accreditation of Igor Nikolaevich Morozov as an observer of the observer mission of the Commonwealth of Independent States and accredited him as an observer mission of observers from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, he said.
the main task of the center is to provide information and reference, analytical and library-bibliographic support for the activities of the highest representative body in the country.
In addition, I really liked the fact that at the end of the message to the people, the head of state paid attention to young people.
3 . The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take the measures arising from this decree within one month.
Electronic application system for marriage by young families.
the test ban itself does not solve all issues.	the test ban will not be a solution in itself .	0,45
In his speech, he noted that the issue of privatization of land needs to be completed.	she notes that the land privatization process needs to be completed .	0,45
Following visits, the commissions are provided with the necessary legislative acts.
meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held out of turn.
Following the implementation of the first stage, the Business Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan was adopted, as well as amendments and additions to other acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on competition issues.
As a region linking Europe and Asia, West Kazakhstan has always played an important role in our economy.
in the future, the state agency can make an additional proposal to the partner concept.
Recall that the liberalization process is aimed at reducing the number of documents submitted by our citizens for obtaining visas to the European Union, simplifying and processing administrative, visa requirements.
The principle of mine operation, combined with programmes of urgency and separability, provides protection against natural obstacles.
In particular, Polish observers expressed interest in forming lists of political parties and whether the CEC had anything to do with this, and delegates were informed that each party itself draws up its own lists, and the financial side - its own.
For quality and accessibility of medical care, a special call center operates in the diagnostic center.
this is in line with international universal standards.
after privatization, all three management holdings should be restructured into compact organizations.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the agricultural industry is one of the most important sectors of the East Kazakhstan economy.
In connection with the national holiday, the head of state received congratulations from the heads of foreign governments and states.
within the fund was criticized and radically revised about two thousand processes, a system of main activities was introduced.
According to the Aktobe information center, the interest of Scandinavian investors may cause oil and gas and mining potential, as well as interest in the convenient geographical location of our region.
Head of State Yerlan Sagadiyev proposed to create a joint action plan for the implementation of reform in the field of education and science.
Within the framework of this bill, it is planned to repeal amendments to the civil code.
our people are proud of our city, and guests will get a good impression.
some products produced by small farms are supplied to neighboring areas and the regional center.
is also well developed in cultural relations.
In order to carry out local police activities, its main tasks are to monitor order on the streets and in other public places, observe traffic rules, and prevent offenses.
Together with my colleagues, I took an active part in the implementation of the Year of Kha in 2015.	we remind that according to the presidential decree the 1st of march is declared as gratefulness day .	0,46
the importance and importance of the signed agreement was noted by the flash mob of Kazakh students studying in Germany.	moreover , the embassy organized a round table dedicated to expo 2017 with participation of representatives from 30 german companies .	0,46
However, he noted that interested bodies needed to consider parallel PPP project documents.	in particular , she noted the need to examine the ppp project documents with all the interested agencies , to reduce the procedures time , to expand the range of financial agents and involve private entities ( financial institutions , accounting and consulting firms ) .	0,46
The annual message to the people of Kazakhstan has repeatedly stated the need to implement measures of social support for the population.	the main attention at the meeting with party 's members of the region was paid to clarifying the priority directions of the address .	0,46
In conclusion, the responsible bodies were given instructions aimed at the high-quality and timely implementation of the planned measures.	following the meeting , the authorities were given a number of instructions to ensure high-quality and timely implementation of all the activities .	0,46
8,621 new jobs are planned.	as of today , the region attracted 48.3 billion tenge of foreign capital .	0,46
This council is a platform that allows investors working in the country to conduct a direct dialogue with the president and the government.	the meeting serves as a platform that allows investors working in kazakhstan to establish a direct dialogue with the leadership of the country .	0,46
labor teams coped with production tasks, completed them in a timely manner.	labor groups have successfully coped with the tasks .	0,46
the world economy leads to the fact that each producer not only buys its own goods, but also provides all types of services.	this approach has more priorities and provides more opportunities and increase of the company 's sales .	0,46
it is proposed to implement it for the 100th anniversary of the UN.	the plan should be implemented in time for the 100th anniversary of the united nations in 2045 .	0,46
The meeting was attended by deputy akim of the region, akims of districts, heads of regional departments and territorial departments, director of the regional branch of RGP "Kazpost of central executive bodies."
in the near future, a flour mill, a workshop for the production of pasta and canned food will begin work.
In addition, it is planned to organize a tourist flow from the Caucasian region of Russia through the region.
The republican competition was attended by teachers of Kazakh universities with continuous scientific and pedagogical experience of at least five years.
now the audio non-recording system shows the time.
We see and know in other countries where riots take place within the country, "color revolutions."
in particular, after the EXPO-2017, the replenishment of the content of the center with new ideas, advanced innovative solutions will be taken into account.
almost all countries that have achieved success in the last half of the year began from scratch in the literal sense.
It is worth noting that this Coxaray water regulator was implemented in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
we plan to open a chain of stores throughout the republic.
upon completion of training, the best students receive the position of master.
as a national expert on the death penalty on the steam line.
In addition, according to the senator, representatives of different parties should be in the new deputy corps.
the introduction of one-way traffic will reduce the load on the road network and increase the average speed of vehicles.
To date, more than 150 thousand projects from 5 countries of the world have been implemented with them.
Currently, Austrian equipment is successfully used on the Kazakh railway.
on the Kazakh side - acting Chairman of Kazkosmos, Chairman of the Emirati Space Agency - Caliph Mohammed al-Rumeisi, the press service of Kazkosmos reported.
this ensures the regular transfer of seed beet to the peasants at the plant.
817 international observers are accredited to the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we wish them only victories in the future.
To the questions of young people who came to the meeting as part of the event, the judges gave comprehensive answers and explained ways to protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens.
In total, more than 60 facilities will be commissioned, including social and economic premises.
these are high-tech products.
In addition, it is planned to modernize the plant in Aktobe region with an increase in capacity to 20 thousand tons of meat and meat products.
when learning English, the specifics of the railway industry are provided.
and in a radical environment, the industry is becoming comfortable around the world.
The meeting noted that the past year was filled with novelties, including the 40th anniversary of the signing of the final act of Helsing.
the purpose of the inspection is to verify the presence or absence of notified military service, that is, military exercises at the army level. the purpose of the inspection is to verify the presence of notifiable military activity - military exercises .
Is it possible to exclude it through the presidential elections that he held last year, and now through early parliamentary elections?
For residents, several services will be provided from one place.
however, the insufficient level of development and efficiency of industry management in Kazakhstan impedes the successful development of this industry.
the war virus is ready to contract innovations around the future of artificial intelligence.
retraining courses for high school teachers and universities of Mangistau region on a phased transition to English have also been launched.
As of January 1, 2016, the company's share in certain oil products markets in Kazakhstan amounted to 16%.
I especially liked what the head of state said about free vocational education.
the main achievement of the first five-year plan, which made it possible to create the most necessary legislative framework.
63% or $140 billion was raised as part of the industrialization program.
a guarantee of security, not a representative of the occupation army!
The main objective of the bill is to further improve consumer protection legislation.
Citizens may visit public service centres and receive a medical certificate for compulsory preventive examination (upon admission to work or study, etc.).
As the observer noted, the Shu members met with the chairman of the Kuandyk Turgankulov and discussed the course of the elections.
The head of the region also noted that historically and cultural ties between Kazakhs and Magyars exist.
the future development of these airports is determined after pre-analyses and audits.
not only conflict, but also very large labor processes in the economy.
About 50,000 people are directly involved in preparing for collegiate sports competitions.
in addition, the annual audit of entities of the quasi-public sector is outsourced, especially in terms of the use of budget funds.
He noted that following the results of the championship the national team of Kazakhstan for the next season will be formed.
the spartakiad was organized for the Day of the medical worker.
as a result of its passage, the military mastered the full course with good results.
In addition, at a plenary meeting, the chairman of the committee on legislation and judicial reform, Nurlan Abdirov, advocated the continuation of work on the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Improving Civil Legislation" and received unanimous approval from deputies to make decisions.
the forum will discuss the development of cooperation on infrastructure, industrial projects, as well as the implementation of joint projects.
During the meeting, Chairman of the Aktobe Branch of the Judicial Union A. Almukhambetov noted that the opening of the mediation cabinet is an important step towards resolving disputes using peacekeeping procedures without recourse to judicial protection.
in addition, irrigation and drainage systems are being improved with World Bank funding.
Currently, voters need young, creative staff.	now the elections are not only necessary , it is the possibility of new updates and the electing of new forces in the parliament , and the participation of other parties in the manifestation of the activity ,  t. pristinskaya added .
Even 200 tourists come, but this is a good indicator.
a. creation of jobs of Dzhaksybekov designated as a strategic task of the Governor's Office of the city.
Let's note that in the concert program which is carried out in the square "azastan ate і", the performances will present more than 450 actors and on-stage performance groups.
the composition of precinct election commissions was approved in the capital at a meeting and published on local press pages.
in addition, K.Mashimov took part in a collective meeting of heads of delegations who arrived at the second world Internet conference with the President of China Xi Jinping.
delegates were greeted with songs and dances in different languages, starting with the platform.
sulphur - products of wide use and constant demand.
It should be noted that 872 students study in secondary school No. 45 in grades 1-11, of which 213 are from low-income and large families.
there is a sports arena, two auditoriums and a podium for more than 700 spectators.
prevention of diseases and improvement of primary health care will be the main priority.
however, the school year will be extended until June 1.
it opens a long way to our future.
The national championship among athletes with disabilities is dedicated to the promotion of physical culture and sports.
During the event, a mini-exhibition dedicated to expo 2017 was organized.
I congratulate you on the Day of Gratitude, which our country celebrates today for the first time.
deputies called these people professional and supported and voted for the activities of a member of the counting committee.
tax regimes need to be optimized - only three levels remain.
bicycle is the most democratic and beautiful sport.
in addition, predicting this crisis was not so difficult.
after a few days we say goodbye to the year of sheep.	first of all , the majilis speaker noted the most important events of the year .	0,46
the conflicts taking place in Syria have negative consequences outside the far region.	syria conflict has negative consequences far beyond the region .	0,46
It was also about the promotion of Kazakhstan to the non-permanent representation of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.	following the meeting , domagalski handed in a letter confirming poland 's participation in the exhibition to r.zhoshybayev.	0,46
he noted that the development of military-technical cooperation will allow our countries to reach a higher level of military-diplomatic relations.	the success of this task requires very close coordination between the states and their armies , where the leading role belongs to your career as the military diplomats .	0,46
the working group noted that article 99 of the statute of the couple should be more actively invoked for this purpose.	the participants also discussed the role of the next secretary-general of the un in implementing these processes .	0,46
so, it was a cross-border automobile market, special mining equipment, pharmaceutical products, as well as a competitive situation in the cross-border market of the union and the fight against cartels.	participants noted that the result of the work carried out jointly with the commission and the antitrust authorities eaeu mobile operators , reduced the cost of roaming .	0,46
Israel has public funding regulated by the State and the Government. tel aviv university is ranked ninth in the world .
updating the deputy corps in the future will help your republic withstand external threats.
Fifteen categories of citizens are exempt from contributions to compulsory social health insurance, which are paid from the state budget.
a significant share of the budget part of universities is formed outside the state budget, and this is one of the main conditions, especially in the transition to the autonomy that you dream of.
In this regard, we have adopted an appropriate appeal to voters.
in addition, an agreement was reached on the creation of a joint transformer oil production plant in Shymkent.
- beam bigariva, first secretary of Almaty regional committee "khkp"
now the turn has come to the aktobe region, which is headed by the berdybek mashbekula.
Further, the parties discussed issues of solving important issues in the field of trade.
eeo owns extensive primary energy resources and has a powerful fuel and energy complex.
at the same time, the key mechanisms should be the placement of shares in stock markets and open auctions.
inaction or demonstration of peacekeeping is adequate for a global catastrophe.
in the great steppe we revered the spirit of the ancestors created by the state under the name of the nation.
The topic of research of colleagues from the Bureau of Astrophysical Observatory is related to the research of Kazakhstani scientists, which aroused great mutual interest.
120 people were awarded the title "Honorary Exploration of the Subsoil of the Republic of Kazakhstan," "Best Exploration of the Subsoil of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
I am glad that it is on this spring renewal holiday that the Kazakh parliament is being updated.
In addition, 4 citizens, all residents of Aktobe, died.
Within the framework of the forum, it is planned to sign a 31memorandum for cooperation in the amount of $1.2 billion.
according to the results of the elections in the team of the deputy faction, as well as under the leadership of third-party national representatives, 2-3 peoples (Russians, Ukrainians, Germans) are limited.
In addition, the region has a transport complex that makes up a single communication network, including road, rail, river transport and Pavlodar Airport, which has international status.
by law, agricultural cooperatives in Kazakhstan work on the principle of "one member-one vote."
During the meeting, the Governor reminded that the budget operation of the Student Games has been halved in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State.
Recall that in 2015, the 21-year-old Karaganda woman won the Kazakh Miss contest.
During the meeting, Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption of the Sayan Akhmetzhanov noted the need for joint work on the formation of a culture of anti-corruption society.
The main activity of the CM is attracting foreign investment to create local funds.
of which 12 state airports (8 are under the trust of airport management group LLP), 6 are privately owned, and in the concession - 2.2015, airports served about 12 million passengers.
The strengthening of Kazakh-Vietnamese transport cooperation opens up wide opportunities for cargo transportation of entrepreneurs.
the main indicator of quarterly monitoring of the trust socio-political position of the power index.
By the end of the year, Cheese Margans LLP in the Kazalinsky district plans to build a complex of fattening grounds for 500 heads and chagan-land in the Syrdarya district for 3,000 heads of cows.
elections are a real political campaign that shows who is stronger.
conclusions obtained through laboratory analysis and integrated testing proved the purity of sulfur, compliance with regulatory requirements.
At the suggestion of the Government of Kazakhstan, our office will receive support within 3 years.
maslikhats also face the tasks of the self-government mechanism.
Recall that the election of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats elected by party lists is scheduled for March 20, 2016.
laid the foundation for the formation of a new Kazakhstan.
this direction is considered the 20th in the account.
In the first quarter of this year the company produced 1.7 billion tenge of products.
the parties also discussed the implementation of a joint comprehensive action plan on the Iranian nuclear program.
Every year, bilateral economic and cultural ties develop.
here it was instructed to resolve the non-agreed terms of the project program.
Kazakh science should become an innovative part of domestic products.
strengthening family values as a foundation for strengthening and developing Kazakhstan's identity and national unity.
As you know, on my instructions, a law has been adopted today providing for the resolution of all issues related to the pension of retired judges.
these violations are observed in the application and each resident knows information about the presence of riots.
From 2003 to the present, a steady decrease in this indicator is observed annually (incidence - 3 times, mortality - 6 times).
At the same time, the Chairman of the Majilis, condemning the ruthless, vicious terrorist activity in the act, said:
In Küngeru, the consul general of Turkey replaced the sword.
the winners of this award are awarded annually.
Central government bodies are also involved in the implementation of the event.
at a literary evening, the dean of the Faculty of Philology noted the importance of holding the event.
this is a historic event, as many objects of cultural and historical heritage of different peoples disappear without return.
In connection with the increase in production, crop production increased by 5.6%, livestock production - by 3.2%.
in such stores, consumers will be able to receive socially significant goods at minimum prices.
l. Biragimova noted that people who receive housing, and those who pay rent, are young families.
the hour of the European day annually arouses great interest among schoolchildren.
I completely agree with these words, "said the expert.
The deputy of the Swedish Riksdag noted that it is necessary to immediately combat the first causes of terrorism.
with these funds, the adaptation of the entrances and routes of the object, the service area will be carried out.
As part of the event, guests and participants will be able not only to get acquainted with the exposition of new developments of defense sector enterprises, but also to evaluate military equipment in service with the Kazakh army.
negotiations with investors are currently underway.
In his speech Akmola Governor Sergei Kulagin noted that the priority to increase the competitiveness of the region is to improve the quality of life and health of the population.
At the end of 2015, the provision of patients with second-line drugs with drug resistance to tuberculosis amounted to 99.4%, in the civil sector - 98% (standard ddu - 85%).
this agreement replaces the previous agreement.
in the near future, mandatory membership income will be introduced according to the signed decree.
in addition, Kazaviaspas intends to carry out maintenance of the Ak-145 sides.
our guarantee is a long-term partner and subsidization of interest gains, "said the Shauenov.
signed on behalf of the two countries by the Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and the Czech Minister of Internal Affairs.
Since this year, classes have been held on driving kamaz vehicles for women military personnel.	as the defense ministry reports , the plan states that combat training starts after month theoretical classes .	0,46
According to him, the main state body in the field of culture and sports is actively working on the implementation of the concept of Kazakhstan's cultural policy, on the basis of which the patriotic act "Eternal Country" adopted at the last session of the assembly was adopted.
During the discussion of this project, senators made more than a thousand amendments.
Entry into the public service is possible only on the basis of the results of comprehensive selection and starting work only from lower positions.
then in the capital it was decided to create a Eurasian.
more than 300 units of special equipment, especially trucks and loaders, will be involved on the subbotnik.
This is necessary for the implementation of the plan of the nation of the head of state.
Since the beginning of the year, 3,409 apartments have been allocated in Astana, Almaty, Shymkent, Aktobe, Kostanay, Kokshetau, Semey, Pavlodar, Karaganda, Taraz.
moreover, the chairmanship of Kazakhstan in 2010 was very successful.
Representatives of the train heading to Ust-Kamenogorsk will also meet with students of the school named after D. Serikbaev and discuss interethnic consent.
if the university plans to test students, then it should be carried out outside the school or as part of open days held at the university and college.
now it is necessary to work on the demand for the economic market and begin to adopt laws.
over the past 10 years, agricultural production has increased by 41%, "he said.
Note that these agreements provide for the return of convicts to their country.
from the streets is also not particularly noticeable.
92% support the decision of the head of state.
therefore, you need to urgently look for other beneficial ways.
Tokayev noted that the Pugwash movement is respected in Kazakhstan for the significant contribution of scientists to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, as well as conflict resolution, and expressed warmth to the visit of the organization's leadership.
Head of Aktobe noted that the purpose and objectives of the project are very important on the basis of EXPO-2017.
According to Dauren Mukhtarula, Kazakhstan has developed the dealer system of the enterprise and concluded agreements on the production of products in a number of foreign countries.
thus, the Indonesian republic became the 46th country to sign an agreement of participation.
early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected at the assembly of the Kazakh people, will be held on March 21 this year.
the geographical scale of our action is growing every day.
in this regard, no one can impartially enlist the support of the population.
education and upbringing of children in kindergarten.
it has more than 20 foreign language centres.
What measures have been taken as a result of these 7 days?
in addition, the number of doctoral scholarships has increased 2 times.
and at the political level.
In 2007, he was elected to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the 4th convocation.
The head of the city congratulated all participants on the start of the cycling marathon and noted the development of cycling culture.
before signing the agreement, the parties visited the 5-storey house.
however, the head of state made a report of a business and trust nature, which indicates a high level of mastery of events and a willingness to adapt to any conditions.
The main mission of the Kazakhstan-2020 digital program is to develop a digital platform aimed at improving the competitiveness of economic sectors and the quality of life of the population.
Participants in the ceremony spoke about potential assistance under the memorandum.
Currently, the leadership of the region has begun active interaction with the embassies of Kazakhstan abroad.
with a good life, with honor.
for some time it is necessary to convey a range of emotions and emotions.
labor relations between the employer and the employee will largely be carried out in accordance with the rules of self-regulation, strengthening the potential of collective agreements and concluding mutual agreements in the areas of hiring, movement of personnel, dismissal of the employee, working time, working conditions and remuneration, "he said.
The Ministry of Public Service Affairs has established an anti-corruption department by the decision of the President of Kazakhstan. the ministry of civil service established the department anti-corruption policy and introduced new institutions of corruption prevention , such as anti-corruption monitoring , analysis of the risks and other measures .
infrastructure will be created here, and in the future many socially significant objects, such as a kindergarten, school, Palace of Celebrations, exhibition pavilion, drama theater building, will be built and improved in the new district.
In order to increase the profitability of pension savings, approaches to investing pension funds should be revised.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, A. Issekeshev's working visit to Turkey took place on March 11-12, 2016 in preparation for the planned visit of the Head of State. Nazarbayeva.
only Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
election commissions monitor the placement of campaign materials in accordance with the law. "
In 2009, 52 countries took part in the Games in Erzurum in Turkey, trentino (Italy) - 50 countries, granada, strbske-pleso (Spain, Slovakia) - 42 countries.
the currency war and crisis threatened financial stability in the developing market.
Egypt is one of the largest states in the Middle East.
If more than 26 negotiations have already been held, then specific agreements have been reached with a number of them.
the heads of the region and topical issues of the upcoming period of dangerous spring floods did not go unnoticed.
Within the framework of public-private partnership with the participation of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs in 2016, projects in several areas will be implemented.
During the forum, the main novels of pre-trial proceedings, discussion and exchange of views on law enforcement practices in the framework of the new criminal procedure code took place.
in this case, patients pose a great danger to others.
According to the regional department of internal policy, 36 of them are included in the regional industrialization map.
On the basis of the policy document "Africa Agenda 2063," this measure is intended to define the development goals of the African country and to consider ways to solve the current problems on the agenda.
in addition, 2 freight electric locomotives and 1 first localized passenger electric locomotive will be created for Azerbaijan.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the initiative received wide support among Kazakhstanis and is relevant in terms of deep reforms and the situation on the world market.
further consideration will be given to the establishment of an advanced technical training centre.
The deputy noted the main direction of the message - free provision of vocational knowledge.
the unemployment rate is the ratio of the economically active population to the unemployed.
most often, graduates choose a profession according to parents, relatives.
Recall that the summer olipiad games will be held in Brazilian Rio de Janeiro from February 5 to 21 next year.
President N. Nazarbayev initiated the establishment of a dialogue of religion and politics.
Today we must make several decisions in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, "said K. Maxim.
Last week, the grouping of kindergartens began in turn in the capital.
I think that the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU signed in December 2015 will contribute to the further growth of mutual trade and the comprehensive strengthening of cooperation.
and attracting investment and developing public-private partnerships.
The parties noted the importance of expanding mutually beneficial relations between states, especially in the field of education.
To date, official confirmation of the participation of 55 countries and 13 international organizations has been received, 18 participation agreements have been signed, 30 section commissioners have been appointed.
it will allow command personnel to fully master the knowledge and practical experience necessary to study new types of weapons and military equipment, master training methods and conduct training.
As explained in the management, the February action plan approved by the Mayor of Almaty provides several directions.
Which deputies will be in the next convocation depends on the will of the voters.
I am sure that we will meet in higher educational institutions those who want to connect their lives with the profession of a soldier, "he said.
The French concern alstom received an additional stake of 25% from ktc and brought its share in the joint venture to 50%.
Other areas of activity are preserved by the mutual interests of the participants and do not contradict the national legislation of the parties.
China has a committee on nationalities, and we are cooperating with Russia.
Kazakhstan, as an independent country, has initiated integrated projects since the first days of independence.
it provides for the creation of a public institute throughout the territory where there is a legislative maslikhat.
In this regard, the head of state submitted to the Senate proposals to elect 32 people to the post of judge of the supreme court.
they express their unlimited gratitude for the care of the health of the inhabitants of remote settlements.
During the meeting with Speaker of the Kyrgyz Parliament Asylbek Jeenbekov, K. Dzhakupov congratulated his colleague on his election to the post of chairman of the sixth convocation of the supreme council, noting that the delegation of the Kyrgyz parliament is waiting in the capital for participation in the parliamentary assembly of Turkic language scheduled for December 3-4.
sergeants-instructors of the Academy of sergeants-majors of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan held classes with teaching and sergeant personnel.
the minister noted that there are factors for the positive dynamics of health indicators.
folklore is also expected to participate in the annual summer festival.
mediator centres can provide for the self-resolution of minor conflicts and provide significant support for the formation of a modern civil society.
The project cost is 125 million dollars, another 87.5 million dollars of investments, "said project manager Daniyal Dusengaliyev.
We understand the concern of the deputy corps and believe that making changes and additions to land legislation is advisable only after the completion of the work of the land reform commission.
in this regard, a number of countries will take their development paths early.
let new apartments bring only new income and happiness, "the head of the region wished.
On November 11, 2015, the head of state signed the law "On Public-Private Partnership" (PPP), which, together with the law "On Concessions" (large infrastructure projects), regulates the sphere of the economy. "
The conference participants noted the importance of the theme of the forum, which gathered at one platform parliamentarians and religious leaders of the world, expressing constructive ideas and readiness to contribute to global efforts to combat terrorism and extremism.
today, the world is entering a new era that presents unprecedented challenges to all mankind.
to confront existential threats despite differing points of view. despite the differences , we all need to unite to confront the threats .
the senator will also meet with the public of the Zhualynsky district as part of a working trip.
in addition, individual sheet sets for the order were carried out.
In 2015, we signed a number of agreements with business entities and public organizations to create social facilities.
this is a time requirement.
some of the Kazakh intelligentsia (Bokin, Niyazbek, Zhunus) opposed the decree and called for resistance to its implementation. He called for calm, warning that opposition to the dominant government will lead the people to violence. "
reed, harvesting and other necessary equipment was purchased for production.
in addition, in people with poor vision, they experience mutual swelling.
Within the framework of the industrialization map for 6 years (from 2010 to 2015), 890 projects were launched.
it includes 9 member states of the Eurasian partner: the Relyas Republic, the Indian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Chinese People's Republic, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation, the Tajikistan Republic, the Turkmenistan and Uzbek republics.
foreign insurance companies will now be able to pay for the treatment of foreigners.
In particular, this year, by decree of the head of state, the Order of Labor Glory of 3 degrees was first established for ordinary people of labor.
supplier qualifications will now be checked in advance.
On New Year's Eve, the head of the region congratulated the baktybaev on paying the veteran of the Great Patriotic War.
In our sphere there are proposals for the construction of other drainage projects, "the akim said.
in other words, according to the expert, Kazakhstan wants to develop its system of private entrepreneurship and get out of the influence of the external market.
Following the meeting, a local plan for the development of interregional meat cooperation was approved.
Today in the regions there are various rules for the development of the territory, prepared by local executive bodies, respectively, in the region different deadlines and procedures.
kha reform was carried out.
In general, the absence of cases of gross violations of the electoral law suggests that, in our opinion, the electoral process is as open and legal as possible, "said N.Suindikov.
today, the circumstances surrounding terrorism and radical extremism, and the various situations taking place in everyday life, leave the world in a panic. we propose to update the content of the commission activities and to plan joint activities in a number of relevant issues , " he said .
According to the managing director of the company Abdoualiyev, due to the modernization of production, the volume of products increased, which allowed to expand and export.
it has contributed to many issues.
we must communicate to each citizen the information specified in this strategic document.	the region approved schedule of visits of the regional information group .	0,47
Akim of the capital bought several yarns for himself and children in the store. this is the first store bringing together light industry manufacturers .
special equipment was installed for machining and measuring infrared lenses involved at the nanometer level.
u. bayzhanov noted that the creation of an academy of law enforcement agencies is due to the need for high-quality training of personnel of law enforcement agencies, including the presidential reserve.
of these, three were in the top ten.
presented the project by the head of the settlement Meirambek potassium.
the conference is organized by the samruk-kazyna national welfare fund.
According to the results of the meeting of the state commission, an order was signed by the aerospace committee of the Ministry for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan on commissioning.
At the same time a.asavbayev noted that in conditions of dynamic development of economic interaction of east and west, reform statements in transport and logistics sphere of Kazakhstan, land transportation along the Western European-western Chinese route will indeed become an alternative to the sea route.
Request for public opinion in the polling room on election day.
veteran Ivan Babin turned 90 this year.
b.Saparbayev noted that the Russian Federation is one of the largest trading partners of Aktobe region.
Recall that the object is located in the old building of the former cinema named after Altynsarin.
thousands of war participants receive free medicines.
It is expected that by 2020, energy generated from alternative energy sources will amount to 30-40% of the region's demand.
3 place katarkol with. English teacher of the agricultural college, campus Daria Viktorovna.
To date, 111 CIS observers have been registered, 130 documents to be registered are in the central election commission.
this difficult time meets the country with very difficult tasks and challenges. "
The company "er-Thai," located in the village of Akshuek, is implementing a project to turn a white-stone enrichment plant into a flotation and gravity enrichment plant with a total cost of 1.2 million tenge.
Since the opening of the academy, more than 1000 students from all regions of the country, as well as long-distance and near-distance foreigners, have been trained.
Renewal of the Parliament of Kazakhstan successfully implements the start course of n.nazarbayev.
is still maintained due to the positive inertia of the previous four decades.
these are the main tasks that we plan to solve within the framework of our strategic goals, "concluded A. Mamin.
During the trip, the signing of a partnership agreement between the regions of the two countries is expected.
we need people who implement them, "he said.
you can cause any violations at any time.
in total, persons who are awarded the highest military and special ranks, class ranks:
The international initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to strengthen peace and stability in general are well known to the public.
A moratorium on public service competitions during the certification period.
At the end of the meeting, K.Masim and Dautoglu discussed the need to intensify work to increase mutual trade and agreed on the further strengthening of long-term business relations.
we are glad that we live and study in the Kazakhstani city, which gives the future to interethnic harmony, confidence, tranquillity.	public association  society of ukrainians " obereg " in astana was created in 2003 .
election commissions of all levels are supplemented and ready for work.
it was a very difficult, long tragic journey.
The main theme of the session is "Improving Impact for Inclusive Growth."
I have a positive attitude towards the initiative of the deputies of the three parties to hold early elections to the Majilis. being a resident of kazakhstan and representative of non-governmental organization , i support this initiative and believe that all our citizens will support this decision as well .
More than 2 thousand items of more than 300 domestic product brands are presented.
Last December, fisu speed skating representatives returned to Kazakhstan.
this can only be done by establishing an effective science and innovation system.
next year it was decided to switch to electronic declaration of subcontracting goods within the eurozone.
the main task in the field of public health protection is the introduction of compulsory medical insurance.
Currently, the district commission is working on the reception of documents of candidates for deputies of maslikhats at different levels.
executive companies need a regulatory environment. such a phased approach would allow the astana ifc to cooperate with many international partners from other financial centers , as it is stipulated in the development strategy of the aifc .
the event will be attended by leaders, members of the Government, representatives of international organizations and financial institutions.
my goal is to spend hermitage days in the capital, the national museum of Kazakhstan.	the delegation of the hermitage consists of the largest professionals of scientific restoration , scientific and educational work , protection and conservation of museum exhibits .	0,47
to a region where there is work and demand.	go boldly to regions with better job opportunities and higher demand .	0,47
Opening the event, the head of state noted that the implementation of the tasks set to increase the efficiency of the domestic economy largely depends on the regions, among which diamond plays a key role.	president nursultan nazarbayev noted that almaty plays an important role in the nation 's and region 's economy .	0,47
Any information related to the legalization of property shall not be distributed to third parties if it is confidential. any information relating to the property legalization is a mystery , not to be distributed to the third parties .
expertise, academic research, improvement of the statistical criminal law system, training of staff of potential systems, training of test officers and acquisition of equipment.
In a word, all conditions have been created for all ethnic groups in the country, "said E. Togzhanov.
but the openness of borders and close ties are positively affected.
As part of the second direction of Gazli Shymkent, it is planned to gasify 40 settlements, including 14 about 25 thousand residents of settlements visited natural gas last 2015.
as today, the contribution to the parliamentary assembly is the sea.
In the near future, the Republic of Kazakhstan will present a package of laws in this area.
It is worth noting that more than two thousand people gathered at the meeting.
raw materials: tissues, yeast, buttons, etc. are purchased in Turkey.
this year he owns one individual and 6 collective scientific works.	there are no innovations without science .	0,47
the first five-year plan of industrialization has become history, but the results of the first year of the second five-year plan will expand work in this direction.
banks that have not been able to solve the problems of capitalization should "leave" the financial system.
To date, 47 companies operate with the participation of Spanish capital.
More than 100 citizens from my country, Sweden, went to Syria to fight Isis.
In turn, Mayor Lugano noted the high tourist potential of Almaty, especially in winter sports.
For each constituency of the capital, the number of primary party organizations and party members is determined.
Mr. Abdykalikova thanked the ambassador for confirming the participation of the country's government in the expo 2017 in the capital.
while negotiations are underway, but there are no specific agreements yet.
The requirements of the program relate to the quality of services provided to tourists who do not spend a lot of money on adjustment.
4.5 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes in the region in 2016 for the construction of 6 projects in the nur aktobe housing estate.
Since the beginning of the year 2284 applications for legalization totaling 10,011,417 thousand tenge have been accepted in the region.
this, of course, is a great joy for the pedagogical community, "said M. myrzathan.
its adoption will contribute to the improvement of the legislative framework in this area.
because all the countries of the world are looking for a way out of the global crisis.
Students also invited students and teachers of other schools of the city to the exhibition of achievements.
The regional department of culture determines the members of the commission and develops an action plan.
- Introduction of procedures for consideration of citizens' proposals on local budget projects covering socially important issues.
As the President noted, in universities of foreign countries, many of our students master knowledge.
On January 20, the head of state signed a resolution on the dissolution of meetings of the Parliament of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
In 2016, it is planned to produce 150 thousand tons of cement, and in 2020 - 300.0 thousand tons.
In 2015, documents of 46 undergraduates were submitted to the competition.
also the audience is waiting for the music of the operetta.
Refusal of works for which any other management is responsible.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan Mr. Schroeder noted the contribution and importance of successful development of Kazakh-German relations.
"Today at the conference we propose to consider the Green Bridge partnership program.
creation of a common gas market according to this logic.
We plan to produce at least 10 tons of gold and 3 tons of refined silver per year.
this composition is a vivid evidence of our common historical root.
this decision, of course, was not made with ease.
positive assessments were received by both world experts and observers.
According to the results of the work for 5 months of the current year, 3.7 billion tenge was fully utilized, the work is being implemented in accordance with the plan.
thus, 955 international observers and representatives of foreign media are currently accredited.
I believe that the need for early elections has been completed.
We support for three main reasons.
this will significantly save the budget allocated for the conduct of election campaigns.
The program, tested in intellectual schools, was supposed to enter the country within 3-4 years.
Pavlodar Pharmaceutical Plant produces drugs, antimicrobials, cardiovascular, heating, anti-tuberculosis, diabetic.
also on polling day, work is underway to replenish the voter rolls.
The meeting was opened by the Special Commissioner of the Secretary-General for South-South Cooperation, Jorge Chedique.
The regional akimats and the education department of Almaty will continue to open private preschool kindergartens.
During the discussion of the bill, having considered the proposals and comments of the committees and deputies of the Senate, it was necessary to make some changes and additions to the bill, "the deputy said.
then a festive concert began on the main square of the regional center.
In addition, Kazakh government agencies have reduced business involvement.
The Commissioner of the Russian Federation noted that participation in the exhibition will help attract large Russian companies.
the guys unanimously welcomed the best holiday in nature.
about 60 different signs are decorated on its smoothed front.
Following the meeting, the secretariats of the Security Council signed a number of decisions.
This product will be produced in chocolate production places, the European press service reports.
cars from the areas will go to the airport without entering the city on a bypass road.
Currently, the state creates all the conditions for raising livestock and making a profit.
in this case, the formation of prices for ferrochem becomes very relevant.
According to A. Myrzakhmetov, thanks to joint work with the fund, it was possible to conclude more than a thousand agreements worth 410 billion tenge.
In this regard, we pay special attention to the development of SME projects and give priority to the creation of industrial zones in each city.	according to him , the region focuses on the creation of industrial zones .	0,48
within the framework of the fifth reform, aimed at creating a transparent and accountable State, several key challenges remain.	the fifth reform aimed at formation of a transparent and accountable state sets several key tasks :	0,48
in the annals of each country, fateful events take place, which became the beginning of its new history.	the chronicle of every nation has fateful date from which the calculus of the modern history has been begun .	0,48
This is the main issue of Kazakhstan, which gives priority in foreign policy.	s.yisrael expressed the gratitude to kazakhstan for the leadership and contribution to the global process of interaction between the different religions and cultures .	0,48
on competition policy - ensuring the growth of business activity in order to develop fair competition.	in addition , the recommendations will be designed to promote cooperation of business communities and business associations .	0,48
the car has enough space for the driver, commander, gunner and 8 fully equipped infantrymen with weapons, ammunition and accessories.	the machine is used as an armored personnel carrier or armored infantry fighting vehicle and is highly effective .	0,48
According to the CEO, this award is very important for every person.	after all , without appropriate assistance of the sectoral ministries it is impossible to carry out such work ,  a. zharmenov has concluded .
legalization of property and capital extended until December 31, 2016.
According to him, East Kazakhstanis are actively participating in the legalization campaign, money, property, as well as from abroad have been legalized.
informing the ambassador about the activities of the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office, he expressed interest in establishing mutually beneficial ties with advanced scientific and educational institutions in Germany.
This document provides for the creation in the country of a center for training specialists in the field of agriculture based on German best practices.
in general, a comprehensive plan aimed at avoiding unemployment has been developed in the region.
At the end of last year, the head of state said that we would devote this year to the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
ratification of the protocol will ensure the implementation of regional measures in the event of pollution of the Caspian Sea by oil.
the athlete became the best among gymnasts in Austria, Germany, Italy and Finland.
- aubakirov marat abdoualiula, first secretary of the branch "kkhp."
possessing valuable qualities, the formation of a spiritually rich person should begin with his birth.
In turn, the head of the region, Danial Akhmetov, instructed to consider the possibility of participation of foreign companies in the project for the construction of bridge crossings passing through the bay reservoir and being built at the intersection with Vinogradova Street in Rostovsk.
The main goal of this sector is to form the image of entrepreneurs in the region.
In the future, our athletes will be criticized in heavy and athletics sports, and it is also planned to replenish our portfolio in a number of areas.
foreign representatives of the garden can contest if there is a certificate of accreditation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the minister, the summer Olympiad is the main event of this year not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the whole world.
therefore, early elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels are timely.
It is expected that at the full launch of the project about 200 new jobs will be created.
when reaching the design capacity, it is planned to create 1800 jobs.
this is the road show of a diversified company, and they are today on our privatization list.	it is organized jointly with the authoritative international publisher the financial times .	0,48
We believe that political reforms in Kazakhstan are carried out depending on the level of formation of the middle class and the development of civil society.	mrs. kuanysheva noted that kazakhstan has a wealth of mineral resources ' but those are not limitless ' .	0,48
At the beginning of the meeting, the head of the region a. Batalov noted that the intensification of sugar beet production is one of the big tasks set by the head of state to Almaty region.	the governor noted that the sugar industry is one of the main tasks set by the head of state for the region .	0,48
In accordance with subparagraph 2) of paragraph 4 of Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to convene a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Astana on June 2016, at 10 o'clock in 17, "the text of the order says.
During these years, we laid the foundation for a new defense system, increased the modern appearance, combat effectiveness and power of the Kazakh army.
because the congress is an extraordinary and vital decision to change our country in the fundamental direction of development.
To date, the plant is operating at full capacity.
Including the creation of an international anti-terrorism coalition under the auspices of the UN, the adoption of a UN Security Council resolution, the implementation of a legitimate global anti-terrorism strategy, the allocation of 1% of the military budget for sustainable development, "the statement said.
guest of honor b. congratulated izmukhambetov on her election to the post of chairman of the majilis and wished success in a very responsible work.
state support provides for the development of the investment climate and the attraction of foreign and domestic investments in the city economy.
Today the train "The M G_l_k Ate" arrived in the city of Taraz of the Jambyl region.
According to him, early elections of deputies of the Majilis, elected by party lists, are scheduled for March 20, 2016, and elections of deputies of the Majilis - for March 21, 2016.
the representation of the supreme power should explain the entire wave of population.
The main report was delivered by the Deputy Chairman of the Central Election Commission.
Examples include the creation of an alibaba group of a Chinese company in the field of Internet commerce.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of internal integrity as the main task of each state and society.
and the number of crimes involving minors dropped from 139 to 97.
The senator also noted the need to increase the use of the products and services of the space system in the field of the use of images from space and to increase the partnership of the state and the private sector.
According to the judge, a qualified commission assesses the practical activities of existing judges.
the agreement will allow you to accept the permission of the participants.
It is worth noting that the total length of the highway of international importance "Western Europe - Western China" is 420 km.
I am sure that the renewal of the composition of representatives of the sphere of power is in the interests of our country and the people.
Mongolian partners were invited to create a system of sales of Kazakhstani cars in Mongolia.
Within the framework of the conference, the mercel held talks with the attorneys general of Venezuela and Ecuador, as well as deputy attorneys general of China and Russia.
Recall that at the 59th step of the National Plan, tasks are envisaged to attract strategic investors in the field of energy conservation through internationally recognized mechanisms for energy service contracts.
first, world geopolitics has entered turbulent development.
at a crucial moment, we must maintain unity and not spare for the good of our country.
we have experience of conquering the Kazakh viewer by creating the highest artistic, patriotic paintings.
How is the task performed in this direction?
The damage to the budget is compensated for the amount paid by the tax, "he said. vocurka.
In general, 16 national projects were implemented within the framework of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
selection took place in 2 stages, i.e. on the scale of military units and regional command.
One-hour tattered performances covered all sides of the history of Kazakhstan.
In addition, in all districts, cities of the region created 11 industrial zones, put into operation 6 industrial zones with a total area of ​ ​ 525 hectares.
graduates of the Higher Medical College of Applied Baccalaureate, majoring in nursing, learn professional skills for pre-medical examination of diseases, making a preliminary diagnosis, referral for consultation to specialized specialists, patronage of children and the adult population, recording medical appointments under the supervision of a doctor.
The head of the region noted that since the beginning of the work of the Permanent Mission of the Asian Development Bank in Kazakhstan, our country has received loans from the bank in the amount of 3.2 billion US dollars for various sectors of the economy.
release of safe grafting needles for self-protective recovery.
727.4 million tenge was allocated from the republican and regional budgets for laying gas pipelines in the village.
the parties praised the level of mutual business relations and expressed interest in further deepening the partnership.
Warm meetings of the Chairman of the meeting continued with the Chairman of the Supreme Council Asylbek Jeenbekov, as well as the Deputy Chairman of the Grand Turkish National Assembly, where issues of strengthening cooperation between Turkic-speaking countries were discussed.
others must find money by themselves, by their labors.
terrorists and extremists exploit different conditions.	therefore , we need to deal with the causes .	0,48
all this is due to the deterioration of the external environment and a reduction in lending to the economy by second-tier banks.	at present , the share of sme contribution to gdp ( according to operative data ) is 25.6 % against 26.2 % last year ,  - said the minister .
In addition, the draft establishes provisions for amending the technical regulations of the eurozone without public opinion.
now in real time there is a multi-channel recording.
It should be noted that the capital is hosting the second international conference "Transport corridor of Eurasia: a new way of cooperation," organized by the Kazakhstan Institute for Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
these are personal funds of a private party or voluntary funds of citizens.
In order to close the 10-year Eurobond received in 2006 in the amount of KZT350 mln kazakhstantemircolyfinanceb.v. organizations holding Eurobonds from the issuer paid all financial payments in full.
fifthly, amendments and additions to the budget code have been adopted.
Recall that in order to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
The total cost of the project amounted to 1.715 billion tenge, of which 250 million tenge - credit funds received thanks to JSC Enterprise Development Fund "Development" under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
after obtaining the status of the Kazakh language, the situation changed.
registration will last until March 29 of this year.
This, of course, is due to the fact that the white metal rolling plant Sokolovskoye Sarai Mining and Processing Production Association has expanded the range of products, the sstnb information center said.
It should be noted that the international seminar will be held in 4 sections, which will depend on various sectors of the economy according to the South Kazakhstan region and washing.
in this regard, vocational education is very important.
In addition, in the weight category up to 94 kg among men, diamond consolation and grease in the weight category up to 69 kilograms won a silver medal, and kedyrbaev in the weight category up to 94 kg won a bronze medal.
all these premises are taken into account when making changes and additions to regulatory acts.
I believe that the world community, together with the president of our country, should pay attention to the fact that time remains inappropriate and can serve as an example for many countries, "said Karipbek Kuyukov.
flights over the sea are considered difficult.
a young man can come from the village, get a technical education and get a job.
o.suleimen thanked for the words expressed in his regard and the prize.
In this regard, as a party of the rural population, ordinary peasants and agricultural producers, we support the timely initiative of the deputies of the parliament and express our great gratitude to the head of state who made a positive decision, "he said.
It should be noted that the IV Eurasian Women's Summit dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan, held in Astana, is attended by more than 500 people.
As the head of the region noted, due to new entrepreneurs, jobs are created, the market is replenished with new products, the export potential of the region is growing.
The issues of religious tolerance and interfaith understanding were discussed at the meeting.
Pavlodar region also has a developed transport complex involved in a unified network of road, railway, water and air transport communications.
Following the meeting, a commission will be created to more clearly develop the mechanism of state procurement of domestic producers and in the field of health care, "the report said.
- akhmetbekov Zhambyl, deputy of the majilis of the parliament of the V convocation, secretary "kkp"
To implement the legislative framework of the national plan, new people are needed.
As part of the festival, the Green Valley project was presented.
modern equipment helps Kazakh students and employees get a good education without going abroad.
during the consultations, the initiative of the Majilis deputies to hold early parliamentary elections was considered.
The head of state also set a number of tasks for the party.
In the Abay region, together with the Russian company Borskaya Posh Factory, it is planned to open a workshop for primary leather processing and production.
In turn, Alshaban noted the high level of investment opportunities and potential of South Kazakhstan region and assured the head of the region that the power plant will be launched before the start of expo-2017.
a people that expects only good things from the changes ahead.
scientists have expressed interest in finding traces of ancient people in the Irtysh region.
since the founding of retaila-a-shs has been engaged in the retail trade of the al-asad trademark in the field of food products.
this bill will terminate a number of provisions of the law "On Amendments and Additions to the Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and the Land Code by December 31 of this year.
The upcoming excavations will help determine the Bronze Age of the East Cossacks.
According to experts, the construction of the road will be completed this year.
In conclusion, the Valekh of Aleskers on behalf of his mission wished the Kazakh people a successful election.
During the meeting, it was decided to amend the program of phased liberalization of the road transport industry within the union.
N.Nazarbayev introduced Kazakhstan as a full member of the largest world community.
Nurumov shaimar Usainovich - Chairman of the Republican Ethnocultural Center of Kazakhstan, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
I do not regret to say that all this is the result of unity in our country.
can you tell us about the structure of campaign spending?
During the conversation, the parties exchanged views on the current situation on the global oil market and the prospects for the development of the energy sector of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 140 representatives of foreign banks from 29 states.
In order to avoid such situations, the Office of the Attorney-General will generally strengthen oversight of the rule of law and strict compliance with existing legislation.
The head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of the parliament on March 20.
To date, 6.4 thousand hectares of ship lands have been prepared in order to implement the tasks set.
the results of the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development will also achieve a number of key indicators.
this is a national holiday of duty and responsibility, which has become a symbol of honest service to the Motherland on the way to the great legacy of Kazakhstani patriotism and civil perfection, freedom and independence.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
together with the diesel power station, the internal power supply means also includes a distribution and conversion device.
This year, as a result of an increase in dairy products, the agricultural sector of Semipalatinsk is among the best in the region.
Zyryanovsky district is an example of maintaining interfaith cooperation, harmony and unity.	the head of the train amirzhan alpeisov agreed that the warm welcome did not allow guests to freeze up .	0,48
This bill was developed directly on the initiative of the deputy of the Majilis.	the draft agenda also includes bills on which the chamber will decide the date of preparation of the conclusions .	0,48
In the future, preparatory groups will be opened between the ages of 5 and 7 years.	as a result , the cost of kindergarten is very attractive .	0,48
Today, a headquarters of four people has been created in the regional center.	the headquarters , consisting of four people have been established in the regional center .	0,48
After that, the head of the region visited the regional center and got acquainted with the conditions for the improvement and cleaning of the city parks.	the head of the region planted the seedlings fir in the gagarin park .	0,48
each party representative according to the regulations is allotted only 2 minutes.	he also stated that the main benefit must remain in the hands of the ordinary people .	0,48
this time these standards will come to the rescue, "he said.
first of all, he sees the support of talented youth.
In this regard, they expressed great interest in establishing contacts, speaking about joint projects being implemented, "the statement said.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the further activities of the organization in connection with the current situation in the area of ​ ​ responsibility and the aggravation of tension in a number of regions of the world.
The TV show was attended by representatives of all six political parties whose party lists are registered with the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the exhibition is an excellent opportunity to demonstrate the latest achievements in the field of defense industry.
because they leave the territory of the state and every year acquire stability and organizational abilities.
And now there is no such balance in our education system, "said E. Sagadiev.
At the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, I proposed a plan for a global strategic initiative-2045.
to do this, we asked to reduce excise taxes on confectionery, meat products, flour and other products that are now supplied, "he said.
Despite the continued growth of fleets, the road accident rate in the country is declining, as last year, even now.
According to the akim, he will also increase the mobility of police work in remote areas of the region.
these regions are similar to each other in raising horses.
By decrees of the Head of State in connection with the transfer to another job:
thus, the forecast will remain unchanged - 0.5% until the end of the year.
completed the procession at the memorial of glory and laid flowers at the eternal fire.
in winter there was a slight formation of snow-ice.
the basic rights of convicts and the duties of the administration of the institution were first approved at the level of the Code.
As a result of the work carried out in Kazakhstan, the rate of tuberculosis morbidity and mortality has decreased in recent years.
In the coming days, senators plan to meet with students of Atyrau State University named after H. Dosmukhamedov, faculty.
Mr. Isaeva noted that this year the area of ​ ​ crops was 21.6 million hectares.
and if he is on a business trip abroad, then, of course, he will have to retake.
In total, more than 6 thousand representatives of small businesses work in the region.
- Nugmanova gaukhar kokenovna, first secretary of Pavlodar regional committee "khkp"
I want you to safely visit us so that together we will meet the 70th anniversary of the Second World War next year, "said the head of the city.
Participants of the cooperation committee meeting discussed topical issues of trade and investment, energy and transport development, environmental protection and regional cooperation.
began to cooperate with foreign investors, in connection with which a public service center was created and effectively operates, "Saparbayev said.
in addition to control and preventive work, issues of preventing violations were explained.
Diversification of energy sources according to inexhaustible and alternative sources of energy.
at the same time, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew special attention to the unilateral coverage of terrorist acts and related Islamophobia, proposing the creation of a permanent forum dedicated to this issue.
During the meeting, the completion of the project methodology for customs officials of the country of the union was agreed.
socially significant diseases and ambulances.
we have the opportunity to develop our country as we want.
The charter of the organization was approved and signed by 24 member states of the organization.
Kazakhstan will not raise money from this fund, "said the Vice Minister.
The Committee will soon submit proposals for the import substitution of building materials produced at home.
the central heraldic element of the state coat of arms is the image of a shanyrak (upper domed part of the yurt) within a blue color.
the employment roadmap is being updated with increased funding.
200 of them come through business, this is a very sad indicator.
deputies elected from the assembly should take an active part in the legislative implementation of this reform.
the parties discussed the work of state bodies, including prosecutor's offices, to ensure transparency of elections.
According to a new report published in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, Kazakhstan's rating rose to 56th place on the 14th line
T. Priestinskaya noted the work of deputies of the regional maslikhat of the last convocation.
Academism is a manifestation of strict traditional classics, which today cannot interest not only the audience, but also the artists themselves. the combination of italian and kazakh traditional art is just an experiment .
Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan proposed to draw up a schedule of joint fairs.
creation of a high-tech production base for maintenance of aviation equipment.
During the grand opening, the head of the region noted that this plant is the second largest in Akmola region.
the implementation of state programs continues, "kulan" - 2,325 horse heads were acquired (116% - to the main task of 2000), "gold-asyk" - 6,851 sheep heads (196% - 3,500 task heads) and pasture drainage - 34 wells (112% - according to the task of 30 wells).
today we are actively preparing for the games in Rio de Janeiro.
Transactions are subject to final approval by the European permitting authorities.
after the republic joins the union, the agreement must be re-signed.
More than 30 servicemen of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan took part in the exercises.
The purpose of the competition is to stimulate secondary schools and students to entrepreneurial initiatives.
In a few days, history will begin counting down the 25th anniversary of the country's independence.
every citizen wants to contribute to the country's dispute.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev pays special attention to relations with the couple.
for example, in the serum area, 2 and a half thousand people answered their questions.
p. barbas noted that thanks to high service "temir zhola" and to efforts of employees of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" all ways passed Kazakhstan and on the approved schedule were timely at all stations.
from. I do not think that it is necessary to represent Gromov, "said the speaker.
council members reviewed the work of reforming the commission from February 1, 2016.
the main content supply program is very careful and clear, now the internal quality of the pavilions depends on the companies responsible for it, "said the Secretary General of the international exhibition bureau.
all of them currently serve as judges, everyone has great experience, a high qualification level, "T. Donakov added.
Since the Second World War, there have been no fugitives.
:: Sultanov instructed the mayors of the districts to create a football field in each local point.
To load cargo on a ship with a capacity of 5 thousand tons, two cranes are working, capable of lifting cargo of 10 and 20 tons, respectively.
this made it possible to assess the large-scale measures that were in our country.
proxies have a special role to play in electoral campaigning.
to attract investment, it was decided to attract a Swedish business delegation to the North Kazakhstan region to strengthen the industrial industry. taking into account the structure of the region 's processing industry and the efforts taken on attraction of investments , it was decided to send a business-delegation of sweden namely to north kazakhstan region .
The head of the company also noted that the price of visiting the exhibition will be as accessible to Kazakhstanis as possible.
the new point of development of our state is a green economy. "
aa. Birtanov noted that the lists contain general requirements that ensure the quality of medicines, the requirements of pharmacopoeia, the requirements for the inspector, as well as the general reception of clinical research results.
thousands of participants in shared construction, deceived by unscrupulous developers, received new housing thanks to the goodwill of the state.
At the same time, we noticed that all parties entering the elections were given equal opportunities and rights.
Among the districts, graduates of the Ualikhanovsky district are leading, gaining 86.67 points above average.
recently published the manifesto "World - XXI century."
behind the dead were family, children.
According to him, at least two candidates were nominated for one deputy mandate.
this project will help staff make the right, alternative decision when punishing and teach how to prevent the recurrence of crimes.
Rector of the Kazakh Agricultural Engineering University named after S. Seyfullin was elected the head of the working group on economics of the Land Reform Commission.
products of Karaganda enterprises are necessary for Almaty energy saving enterprises.
first of all, they meant a diploma.
It should be noted that during the negotiations, the Kazakh side expressed its readiness to provide Senegalese students with a grant to study at higher educational institutions of Kazakhstan.
constitution - law - the basic law of the state, a group of laws or laws with high legal force in relation to all other laws in the country.
anti-crisis policy is based on a specific scientific method.
The parties exchanged views on the prospects of further cooperation in the field of green energy and discussed the participation of Latvia in the Astana exhibition.
As the Governor's Office noted, modern trends and ice making technology were taken into account when compiling ice towns.
the Dutch company van der hoeven was engaged in the design of the greenhouse complex.
Its goal is to establish cooperation between nationalities to ensure universal respect for human rights and equal access for all to education, as well as the elimination of any discrimination in education and the promotion of equality of opportunity and equal treatment for all in this field, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan.
The draft memorandum affirms the interest of the business community between the countries of the union in order to implement effective development.
these changes and additions are aimed at institutional strengthening of the assembly, creating appropriate conditions for social harmony, Kazakh identity and consent, "the chairman of the committee said.
Also, the vice president of the representative office of the Kazallans public association in the Swiss Confederation presented the cultural diplomatic program of the representative office of Daniyar Tokbaev for 2016.
in the early years in the republic it was necessary to improve the state service.
we have become a united nation, we have earned the right place throughout the world with honest work.
We also express our gratitude to the representatives of all nationalities who are grateful to the Kazakh people.	the gratitude as one of the highest moral values is associated with many pages of our history .	0,49
the result does not depend on the chosen number, but on how great the role of trust in the voter is.	head of the people 's democratic patriotic party  akzhol " boribai zheksembin had number 6 in his envelope .
the president set the task.
The goal of each game is to collect the points of your opponent.
productivity of manufacturing industry in the region increased 2.1 times, exports of non-primary products increased 1.7 times.
In turn, the leaders of the British business communities expressed interest in regulatory cooperation with ahko based on the English legal framework.
Director General of Entrepreneurs Saira Mataibayeva noted that 10 years ago they produced furniture products.
it was developed by the Institute of Economic Research of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan
In 2016, the company applied for raw materials to the white stone branch of Sberbank in Shymkent.
this is obtaining permits for labor, all licenses, permits, land issue and others.
First Deputy Prosecutor General Johan Merkel, opening the event, noted the importance of training leaders of a new type - leaders and current managers to implement the tasks set by the head of state.
from 2007 to 2012 - akim of West Kazakhstan region
highly qualified specialists teach final technology to students.
"We are working to attract raw materials from countries such as Iran, Mongolia," said M. Tuleuzhanov.
As the head of the department noted, special attention is paid to working with transnational companies.
From 2011 to 2014, the export volume of ctz products increased by almost 10%.
modern high-tech efficient equipment will allow to implement a cycle of works, such as laser opening of metal sheets, welding of armored sheets, application of paint coatings, assembly, quality control.
Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the V conv
Managing Director for Finance and Operations - Elena Bakhmutova, who previously served as deputy chairman of the board of the fund.
violations are detected early, at the stage before the conclusion of contracts, "he said.
it would help overcome all economic barriers.
in this regard, the diplomat called on the Vietnamese side to use the transit capabilities of Kazakhstan in the transport and logistics sphere.
innovations and their effects are growing exponentially.
The Chairman of the Majilis got acquainted with the large-scale work of the Head of State on legislative implementation of 5 institutional reforms and called on the Head of the Dutch Parliament to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit in order to strengthen inter-parliamentary relations.
The topic of discussion of students of domestic and foreign universities is a modern scientific direction: research from applied to innovative.
As the Chairman of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan noted, it is cashless settlements that contribute to the increase in tax revenues.
The Honorary Consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been appointed one of the authoritative persons of Casablanca - President of the Economic Chamber of the Arab country, ex-deputy of the House of Advisers of the Parliament of Morocco.
they are considering the possibility of investing in this project, since the products of the future enterprise will be sent not only to the domestic market of Kazakhstan, but also more than half of the produced products will be increased to Russia, as well as to Central Asian countries
in this regard, it is possible to use the experience and knowledge of members of the public council rationally and effectively in solving the main issues of the Ministry's activities.
at the same time, foreigners intend to work to improve the fertility of sown land in the region, not limited to growing grain.
the seminar-meeting heard a report by the deputy head of the regional health department Nurzhamal Myrzagalieva.
however, the current economic situation had conquered all countries.
According to him, in the framework of aef, together with the authoritative international publication the financial times, the Kazakhstan forum on privatization and organization will be held.
The action is carried out in order to attract the population of Kazakhstan to the international practice of separate garbage collection, as well as to determine the most suitable mechanisms for collecting hazardous waste, including electronic and electrical means.
A special prize was also awarded to 50 soldiers called up for military service.
in mechanical engineering - 7 times, in products and drinks - 30%, "said a representative of kaznex invest.
It should be noted that at the meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan 107 deputies, 98 of which are elected by party lists, 9 - from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The Head of Kazakhstan touched upon the issue of transit crossings of Kazakhstani vehicles through the territory of Russia.
therefore, it is important to increase the responsibility of respondents and administrative sources to provide quality statistics.
together we are creating an important structure that will effectively solve priority issues, "he said.
the process of determining the boundaries of polling stations and constituencies is under way.	a nominated citizen should meet the requirements , established by the constitution of kazakhstan .	0,49
Recall, today, March 1, in Kazakhstan, a day of gratitude. "
What events are held in accordance with the plan of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan?
The number of small and medium-sized businesses operating in Almaty region reached 162.1 thousand units.
Does the current situation stimulate or slow integration within the eurozone?
because producers invest in land.
so he himself will be able to see his day, "he added.
earlier, together with Belarusian specialists, a three-time liver transplant was successfully carried out.
under his presidency, we are going to celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence.
In connection with this decision, the CEC has already held a briefing.
on my instructions, all necessary assistance is provided to them.
the child begins early education. child will go to school earlier , the number of educational programs in universities will be cut .
The main goal of this program is to create a platform that will become the basis for the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" proposed by the president.
At the moment, 70 countries have confirmed their official participation.
deposit value in national currency increased by 307 billion tenge.
An independent audit will check the fund according to the quantity and quality of production.
dismissed personnel (employees) will be employed in new water supply facilities in Nauryzbay district.
In this message, the head of state addresses the topics of the economic aspect and social services of the state before citizens.
thus, the number of containers passing along the route China - Kazakhstan - Europe in 2015 increased from 2013 thousand to 6 thousand compared to 48 years.	there is a need to modernize the charter of the united nations , to preserve the basic principles of international law .	0,49
Perhaps it is worth thinking about how to slightly extend the spring and autumn holidays.	these textbooks are aimed at development of functional literacy and integrated system of study , due to which academic load on students will be decreased .	0,49
Of these, 24.5 thousand objects in educational institutions, one and a half thousand in sports schools, 9 thousand objects are intended for physical education and sports.	the minister explained that a sports and health complexes are being built mainly in remote district centers to provide access to sport activities .	0,49
Among them are more than 100 authoritative scientists, social historians.	according to the vice-president , in order to ensure civil peace and stability , social consensus , the council held 1923 meetings and events to discuss topical problems of the population .	0,49
Previously, Paul Telor studied the archaeological landscape of the gobus in Azerbaijan.	earlier , paul taylor successfully conducted large-scale study of the archaeological gobustan landscape in azerbaijan .	0,49
however, after the train is in Shalkar on March 10, it will again arrive in Aktobe.	the delegates of  mangilik el " appreciated the new building and the services provided , as well as talked about the purpose of their trip across kazakhstan .
providing Kyzylorda residents with clean drinking water was a difficult issue that has not yet been resolved.	at the ceremony , which took place on the day of the first president of kazakhstan , governor of kyzylorda region krymbek kusherbayev noted that to solve this problem was not easy .	0,49
after the negotiations, the chairman of the Federation Council of Russia spoke to the deputies of the Senate of Kazakhstan.	as mrs. matvienko told , the main event in the russian-kazakh relations is the beginning of the eurasian economic union .	0,49
the bonus part in turn depends on whether the employee receives a bonus.	if a civil servant is prosecuted , the bonuses will not be paid ,  shaimova has said .
z. served a lot of time in the media center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, she is an experienced masseuse.
There is a rarity when Kazakhstanis see rabbits on the menu.
It is worth noting that tickets and other ticket products will be released in stages.
secondly, we received the nationwide idea of ​ ​ an eternal country.
Following the results of the bilateral meeting, interest was expressed in further deepening cooperation across the entire spectrum of trade and economic integration.
President Nazarbayev has the opportunity to realize and take measures in advance.
the first was shown by the Izvestia channel on the eve of the 2007 parliamentary elections.
each of these projects will contribute to the development of the region's economy.
with the support of Samruk-Kazyna and Samruk-Kazyna Corporate University, the conference became an annual dialogue platform.
at the same time, we rely on the Singaporean experience.
the state through grants, vouchers unfolds the labor market in the right direction.
In addition, it is planned to implement 13 social projects of non-governmental organizations within the framework of the state social sphere of the region to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the deputy akim of the region summed up.
Another important part of the message is the introduction of vocational education.
The Secretary of State thanked the ambassadors of Nicaragua and Djibouti for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018 and expressed the hope that only the republics of Albania and the Bahraini kingdom will support the candidacy of Kazakhstan.
- What issues will be the focus of attention of the Central Election Commission for the coming period?
furnace equipment at the Voskhod plant was purchased from neighboring Russia.
Australian specialist studying horse adjustment.
During the construction period, 1861 new jobs were created.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of effective implementation of reforms aimed at the formation of a professional state apparatus within the framework of the "national plan."
It should be noted that the interest rate of this loan will be 8 percent per year.
during the consideration of bills by senators, 1,490 amendments were made.
the project manager vyacheslav volokhin receives raw materials from local agricultural producers.
basically, five quality control steps were carried out on republican roads, "said A. Issekeshev.
on each ladder of the career ladder, he must prove his professional fitness.
at the same time, the Kazakh side can regularly bring information about the most attractive projects to the attention of the diplomatic corps, and they - to their capitals.
I support these snap elections despite the global difficulties that are taking place in our country.
According to experts, the torpedo can be compared with a Kalashnikov assault rifle in its properties.
the lump-sum fee payable is 0.25 per cent of the loan.
The CEC plans to submit preliminary data on the results of voter turnout at 22.30 o'clock.
It is worth noting that this year 77460 hectares of agricultural products were sown in the Saryagash district.
gymnasium for gifted children named after Abu Dosmukhambetov with an indicator of 103.6 points, Peter and Paul gymnasium "best" with an indicator of 101.4 points.
The commission was established to monitor compliance with electoral legislation in the field of election headquarters of candidates, election commissions and gardening. the commission was established to monitor the compliance with the electoral legislation in the region .
all of them received appropriate training and training.
For our part, we will take all measures to provide the service that Kazakhstanis expected, "said A. Stah.
Last year, a service for transferring money to single personal accounts of customers online was launched.
that is, the maximum strengthening of colonial valor during the war, land seizure, the policy of Russification, etc. began. A spontaneous uprising that soon began in the Kazakh steppe.
funds are aimed at creating an industrial territory in the region, as well as at implementing projects to attract engineering infrastructure to private enterprises.
To date, major forbes-2000 investors have started their manufacturing business.
As you know, in order to cope with adverse conditions in world politics and the economy, the president proposed a plan for the nation - 100 concrete steps.
this may indicate that democratic rules exist in the country.
In total, in order to implement the 60th step of the National Plan, 10 dairy farms will be built.
constantly express our thoughts on the liberalization of the visa regime.
every day we have training to improve combat readiness.
According to him, early elections of deputies of the Majilis, elected by party lists, are scheduled for March 20, 2016, and elections of deputies of the Majilis - for March 21, 2016.
Kazakhstan is known to the whole world as a creative country striving for prospects.
that is, in a specific state body it is expected to identify the reasons for the analysis of anti-corruption risks for influencing corrupt officials, and anti-corruption monitoring determines the presence of legal conditions, which, in turn, will contribute to the absence of corruption, "said the Vice Minister.
any reform is successfully carried out in each country with the participation of public servants most responsibly related to state standards.
petrochemical production for processing coking coke - an innovation in the development of the oil refining complex of the region, high-quality competitive products and new jobs.
In September 2016, it was noted that in 2011 it is planned to close 22.5 billion tenge received from three commercial banks.
144 regional winning enterprises take part in the competition.
more than 150 military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the economy.
bakytzhan sagintayev noted the need to improve and equip technical means of controlling road points on the external border of the Eurasian Economic Union, since the existing infrastructure does not meet modern requirements.
the programme will be financed from the EU general budget.
About 885 pieces of equipment are involved in city utilities.
It is worth noting that more than 10 large companies were involved in the exhibition.
work will be carried out in the field of technical regulation.
and to enhance the role of public institutions and the media in ensuring information security, increasing religious literacy of the population in the context of the development of information technologies.
however, people will receive a decent salary and live calmly.
Financing is carried out at the rate of 1 thousand tenge per 6 hectares, provided that the commission is paid in the amount of 5% per annum of the amount of financing at the end of the financing period.
Early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan will contribute to the formation of a new composition of meetings.
Parliament of the sixth convocation is faced with the issue of solving a number of important legislative tasks.
Kazakhstan-2050.
so far, the company has been commissioned by the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In the second half of the 20th century, as a result of successful nuclear security negotiations, the nuclear arsenals of the country and Russia were significantly reduced.
The foreign expert's opinion was supported by the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan.
Head of State Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev clearly analyzed the whole state course of development.
Financing is carried out at the rate of 1 thousand tenge per 6 hectares, provided that the commission is paid in the amount of 5% per annum of the amount of financing at the end of the financing period.
the company previously rented a building in Astana.
at the plenary session, the deputies will appoint deadlines for preparing the conclusion to the relevant committees on a number of ratification documents.
The local individual entrepreneur, who received the old school building, renovated the kindergarten and equipped the facility in accordance with all requirements.
Thanks to the goat, the first medical center with a pharmacy opened in Mangystau.
Such activities will be carried out in all areas of the region in the future.
you will find a local partner, and they know the peculiarities of Kazakhstan's work, as well as in some projects there are savings from 3 to 25 million dollars.
We also noticed that voters preferred the Nur Otan party.
because the Croatian enterprise was 160 years old when it engaged in this type of production and built ships.
Besides, it is necessary to prepare patriots who will create the state of the future "The m g_l_k Ate", - A. Zholdybalina told.
candidates will represent themselves after election campaigning.
Speaking with a special report on this bill, the Deputy Minister noted that the basis for the development of the bill was the implementation of the instructions indicated in the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
In addition, socio-economic dissatisfaction leads to a religious dispute, an increase in terrorism.
K. Tokayev instructed to organize the event at a high level and ensure meaningful readiness.
at the sibelius concert, a separate performance was performed by Kazakh violinist Erzhan Kulimbaev.
this activity is entrusted to persons with special status among their colleagues.
The Day of Gratitude is primarily a sign of sincere gratitude and ardent desire of the citizens of Kazakhstan to each other, who, as a result of the policy of peace and harmony, united in friendship, unity and unity of our country. i am sure the more the countries will use our unique experience of the interethnic consent , the safer the whole world will be .
At the same time, in his opinion, it should not be limited to the adoption of relevant laws, as stated in the article, their clear implementation is necessary.
In hearing the report, I would like to highlight what has caused me concern.
the astronaut answered the questions of schoolchildren in detail and in detail.
The eqdb investment will update the worn-out heating and water supply networks, install modern installations and an automated control system, and continue the metering program to improve energy efficiency and environmental standards.
their falling into the hands of terrorists is something that is quite possible over time.
we have a great history and a great experience that builds a mutual and fruitful dialogue.
In addition, it will be a new complex with a high combination of respect for nature, safety and convenience, "said the head of the city.
political parties always provided the population with information, said the director of the research institute "public opinion" botagoz rakishev.
the company is working to obtain meat from Kazakh breeding cattle.
its main goal is to create a strong state, a prosperous society based on a developed economy and universal labor, Kazakhstan is among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
today's forum is a platform for us not only to exchange views, but also to receive all the necessary information. today 's forum is a great platform for dialogue to share the views .
the coordination service of the main narcologists of Member States will also be discussed.
73 thousand companies have been opened through egov since 2013.
It should be noted that Governor of Aktobe region Berdybek Saparbayev took part in traditional festive events.
it is planned to design and manufacture instruments with a large depth of installation, as well as lighthouse equipment and coastal lighting signs.
Turkish company is considering the possibility of reusing water in various industries.
the Moldovan side provides for the procurement of railway products through the Kazakh side.
since the safety of crews and passengers, the safety of goods and other material objects depend on this.
M. Brodsky noted that Kazakhstan and Israel associate traditional friendly relations based on common interests and mutual attention.
According to the expert, the elections will contribute to the activation of parties.
Recall that this year a single national test will be held from June 1 to 15 in three places still in format.
because everyone should feel that his civic position depends on the future of the country, "the deputy concluded.
local authorities intend to develop services along the Samara-Shymkent highway with high transit potential.
the complex is fully automated and equipped with foreign funds.
In his speech, the chairman of the committee noted that public servants should be an example of entrepreneurship.
In addition, this year, the Housing Construction Savings Bank, as part of the state program for the development of regions until 2020, will provide depositors with housing with a total area of ​ ​ 459,000 square meters.
According to the entrepreneur, the lowest unemployment rate is observed in the North Kazakhstan region.
At the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, N.Nazarbayev presented to the heads of state a 5-step program as a whole, in which their joint work is clearly demonstrated.
at the same time, electric vehicles are allowed to travel in order to stimulate the transition to environmentally friendly modes of transport.
During the visit of the delegation to Fafi, a scientific seminar was held with the participation of Armenian colleagues.
the key to success is simple - our party with great responsibility refers to an important issue for Kazakhstanis.
this bill provides for the organization of shared participation in housing construction in the following ways: obtaining guarantees of a housing construction guarantee fund; participation of the second-tier bank in the project; attracting money from equity holders after the construction of the framework of a residential building. the basic law provides rules for guaranteeing the deposits of equity , project finance bank of the second level , the construction of a building frame at the expense of own funds of developers , " - m. kusainov said .
It should be noted that the passing form passes under the motto "formation of the future government" and shows a good level of participants.
Kazakhstan, as a young country, has been actively developing in recent years.
In addition, information exercises on the commission are held at workplaces.
Today, Kazakhstan society must adapt to the implementation of the message of the head of state.
losers should be able to leave the market or start again.
timely preparations for meetings and elections to maslikhats at all levels.
Note that the leadership of the center attaches great importance to the training of its personnel.
the approach to the creation of a staff pool in the prosecutor's office has changed significantly.
The area of ​ ​ the industrial zone of the Taldykorgan is 594.9 hectares.
raw materials are extracted at the Kuu-Chekinsky coal field (Bukhar-Zhyrau district).
in addition, a new project "Volunteers in the Library" was launched.
The joint holding of elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of various levels is useful both politically and economically.
a new shoe sewing enterprise has been opened in the Tselinograd district of Akmola region.
In order to increase the volume of external investments, a number of works are being carried out on our part.	b. atamkulov noted that in order to attract additional funding , a series of measures were taken .	0,50
Participation in EXPO-2017 will be visited by 75 thousand Chinese.	most of people will come from china .	0,50
citizens participating in the forum must pay 35 thousand tenge.	also among the key actions there will be a forum of the silk road countries .	0,50
At the summit of the African Union, which will be held on January 29-31 in Addis Abebad, Kazakhstan has observer status, in connection with which it noted the high potential for cooperation with African countries.	the invitations to observe the elections were sent to 11 international organizations , while the cec sent invitations to the central election commissions in 18 states .	0,50
this decision can be appealed by the voter to the court.	also , the expert told about the terms of the getting the absentee ballot .	0,50
high international authority was noted at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.	and the speech of the president at the jubilee 70th session of the un general assembly is the great evidence for that .	0,50
quality, comfort, maximum relief for citizens - these should be the main priority areas for the development of the state corporation, "Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Dariga Nazarbayeva said during the meeting.
This time, attention will be paid to young people left without parental care.
guests visited the building and expressed joy.
now there is no reason for concern of the population, the situation is under complete control.
Islam and progress always go in parallel, so it is necessary to work together to develop science and technology in Muslim countries.
We must now proceed with this task.
since then, the republican center of the space network has been providing commercial implementation.
As noted, the code is designed to prepare an independent assessment of mineral and raw materials assets of companies and is aimed at attracting investments to foreign and domestic sites in order to finance subsoil use projects.
the broker's permit issued by the national authority is the main document transferred to the EEO.
Today, forecasts for a constant decline in global life growth do not surprise anyone.
At the end of 2015, the volume of bilateral trade exceeded $3 billion.
the construction of a new 110 MW power unit is the second stage of expansion of the station.
Today, several companies receiving solar energy in the Netherlands are actively preparing to participate in the Expo 2017 exhibition in the capital.
At the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, I proposed a plan for a global strategic initiative-2045.
the silver medal was received by the Anwar Mahamadeev in speed skating among mixed teams.
The head of the information and analytical department of the Kurmangaliyev genre apparatus and the head of the Kudaibergen rope sector familiarized with information funds and exhibitions.
best consumer goods: Kazlegprom-Almaty LLP (director of aibek bekturgans), ta-makka LLP (gulmira konkasheva), kazbergens (nurbek kazbergens)
people say that wishes on this day are necessarily fulfilled.
especially discovered substances can be found by every resident.
In the framework of cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan, promising issues of the development of silicon production are currently being considered to organize the production of high-quality beam silicon.
It is worth noting that in JSC "Information Center of East Kazakhstan region" press conferences with the participation of akims of districts and cities of the region started.
automotive industry and automotive structures.
This year, 326 complaints of entrepreneurs received legal issues, 163 of them, therefore, 50% were resolved positively.
In addition, the meeting participants discussed the possibility of creating a Eurasian technological platform for the effective use of the innovative potential of states in production.
Mr. Asanov spoke about the activities of the secretariat and preparations for the next meeting of the plenary session of the Turkpa.
In this regard, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP announced proposals to issue preferential compensation for potential investors to conduct the procedure and increase the attractiveness of public-private partnership facilities.
for the initial three assets, we will look for strategic investors who will maintain an initial profile of activity with specialization, necessary experience and skills.
A lot of people came to the polls, "he said."
Governor of the region Berdybek Saparbayev told the participants of the event that one of the main tasks is to preserve jobs, timely payment of wages and implementation of the production program.
professionalism of our employees and pretzel. "
each message that characterizes the socio-political life and state of the country has its own serious burden.
Before the meeting, that is, April 18, Kazakh-Armenian interdepartmental consultations were held.
It is worth noting that the event, the purpose of which is to questionnaire graduate students who want to work in the prosecutor's office, and familiarize themselves with the area of ​ ​ the prosecutor's office, is of great importance for future owners of specialists.
and dollars are needed by those who will trade from abroad.
everyone should have the fullest understanding of how public administration and the rule of law change through legal discoveries.
this is a very large indicator.
now agricultural products are grown here, livestock activities are carried out.
very high level of participants.
for cocoa paste and low-zero cocoa butter.
As you know, more than 106 residents live in the republic.
According to him, in the region there was a need for the production of meat and milk of cattle.
The expert noted that until November 2015, a law on concession was adopted.
- it is impossible to assess the work of the leader of the nation in this area.
- zevakhin Alexander Mikhailovich, first secretary of the Karaganda regional committee "khkp"
Even before the start of voting, many people gathered at polling stations.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Golden Quality Award and for the first time a competition is held in Kazakhstan.
now easter has become a real national holiday that will reconcile and bring everyone closer. you all know that the new mosque was opened last year .
the Chinese side is interested in us supplying these products to China.
my contribution to the future is to preserve the unity and unity of the people.
If 2006 enterprises participated in 52 year, today the commission selected 10 competitive enterprises in each nomination from 153 applications.
images on the front and back sides of silver coins and a mixture of neisilbers are the same.
The total construction area of ​ ​ the aviation center is 62,660 square meters.
925 events were held in the regions as part of scientific and expert work, "said L. N.
Abdrakhmanov is the president of "sovereign Kazakhstan," a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the negotiations, the head of the Belgian company expressed his readiness to take part in the exhibition.
a significant Kazakh society lives in the Astrakhan region.
as well as a scientific and expert group at the regional kha.
- Today we observe some pressure, inconvenience in the CIS space.
There is a growing number of stable opinions in Kazakhstan to draw attention to the initiatives of the head of state.
In the twenty-first century, humanity needs to take a decisive step towards demilitarization.
The kazrc association has been appointed a member of the crirsco committee from the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the ministry said.
Another 400 observers will arrive before election day in Kazakhstan.
we have proved to the whole world that over the years we can hold legitimate, transparent alternative elections.
According to the Vice Minister, the second part of the funds will be used to create technology consortia.
it is worth noting that there should be a separate section of family and demographic policy.
If we analyze the data of three national exit polls, we will be convinced of the figures: 145 thousand people are covered in the 1085 polling station. 145 000 voters were interviewed at 1 085 polls .
During the meeting, members of the Bureau of the Political Council - Chairman of the Senate of Parliament K.Tokayev, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan a.bashmakov spoke.
Appreciation was expressed for the actions of the armed forces of the Russian Federation in combating international terrorism and assisting the Syrian people, including in demining liberated cities.
but even then, the head of state collected oil revenues into a national fund and adopted a strategy for industrial and innovative development, and also initiated reforms in science, education, and medicine.
As the head of state noted, the country needs to deeply reform the state structural management, financial and state sector.
600 million tenge is also provided for social expenses of employees.
such information helps to learn from each other.
We can create local police and monitor the progress of law enforcement.
From 2013 to 2015, 42-43 billion cubic meters of gas were produced in Kazakhstan.	the gas production fully covers domestic consumption .	0,50
Today, the Shanyrak language school works fruitfully in the house of friendship.
people with disabilities can also play sports there.
in Kazakh society, the attitude to the tsarist decree and uprising was not unequivocal: some of the rich feudal lords, some officials of the local administration supported the tsarist decree and called for its implementation.
the construction of the complex is carried out at the expense of foreign direct investment, i.e. carmeuse group.
We will take an active part in the March 20 elections, "he said.
as Almaty commodity producer and chief public procurement operator.
Recall that the fund offers the following credit program:
the document basically clarifies the competencies of the established commissions, joint headquarters and authorized bodies in the event of accidents during the launch of a rocket from the Baikonur cosmodrome.
Deputy Prime Minister Darig Nazarbayeva together with regional advisory centers to create a single call center under the government - a "hotline" to explain the reforms.
on the other hand, today's children are schoolchildren, and they will enter the labor market early.
the soldier worked as a radio telegraph, was responsible for providing communications.
According to the organizers, the best students of universities of Kazakhstan are invited to the forum, studying 2-3 courses in economics and finance, where they will organize lectures with Nobel Prize winners, master classes and training seminars with leading world economists and successful entrepreneurs.
To date, as part of the transition of intellectual property to eidu standards, a separate department of the Ministry of Justice has introduced a number of changes to the bill on intellectual property. ministry of justice , the department of intellectual property rights has developed a draft law on amendments to the legislative acts on the issues of intellectual property .
In the field of transport this year, 890 km of 4-lane roads of the i technical category were laid.
this section is part of the highway capital - Pavlodar - Rostovsk.
for four years now.
it is also planned to optimize the system of providing social assistance to needy residents by strengthening their targeted nature.
for the first time in the history of the country three times conquered the world arena among youth.
Kazakh banks should comply with the standards of the basic committee of all international currency funds, including international ones, "N. Nazarbayev said.
- sorokin Boris Vladimirovich, deputy of the majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
The main purpose of the festive event is to show the young generation the rich cultural heritage of the Kazakh people, to respect traditions and traditions, using the great Day of the Nation as a mechanism of education.
In this regard, the Majilis extended the consideration of the bill until March 20, 2017.
38 applications for legalization of property worth 1044.4 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the bodies of state revenues received 38 applications for legalization of property located outside the republic totaling 1,044,400,000 tenge : 38 objects have been legalized .	0,50
It should be noted that on June 2, the so-called Eurasian National University named after Gumilev and others at the Kazakh Agricultural University named after Seyfullin, a single national testing took place.	testing was held at the eurasian national university named after l. gumilyov and kazakh agro technical university named after s.seifullin.	0,50
During the forum, a number of agreements and memoranda on mutual cooperation were signed.	in addition , the issues about the mineral resource base of the region , the development of an industrial zone  aktobe , " as well as a investors service center of the new format were discussed .
Significant progress has been made over the past few months regarding the establishment of the Tube Bank of the International Atomic Energy Agency, including:
The accol, which provides opportunities for the Astana agglomeration, should become one of the leaders in the field of domestic tourism in Central Asia in the future.
Recently, an expanded meeting on the benefits of this method was held in Suzak district.
Thus, all conditions for the care of persons with disabilities of groups 1 and 2, including social jobs, with children with disabilities under 7 years of age, are taken into account.
In total, more than 5 thousand different events will be held in the year of the celebration of the quarter century of independence in the region.
The Chairman of the Majilis congratulated his colleague on his re-election to the leadership of the House of Parliament and expressed confidence in the further strengthening of the Kazakh-Pakistani bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation.
At the same time, most graduates enter universities in Russia and China.
property of citizens who have property on land plots.
energy efficiency and alternative energy development are particularly relevant around the world.
The coming to an end in 2015 was a difficult year, the crisis and global challenges that heated the world had an impact on our country.
their participation was officially confirmed yesterday.
Scientists have scientifically proved that with a reduction in the week of study, the effectiveness of education increases.
According to A. Mamytbekov, work is underway on a transnational company, a project is being financed to increase the capacity of the complex for the production of meat products in the Aktobe region.
they will be obtained at more acceptable regime rates used in exports to other third countries, "added marat kusain.
This plan provides for specific measures of the union and commissions for the export of products, the development of agricultural engineering and automotive industry.
Proposals and new models in the president's message reached foreign countries.
the leaders of these working groups today answer questions, "said Dariga Nazarbayeva, speaking at a press conference.
As the conference participants noted, practice proves the correctness of the reforms initiated.
The Chairman congratulated the head of Azerbaijan on holding a global forum "coexistence in inclusive societies: threat and goal."
this is the first time that we have briefed on this issue.
on this day, all the respect shown was dedicated to tender beings.
the first oxidized ores entered the silysetting site in June 2015, after which they underwent the stages of irrigation, liquid extraction and electrolysis.
this initiative of majilismen was widely supported among citizens of Kazakhstan.
In turn, investors who arrived in the area saw the land and noted that soil fertility, air humidity are favorable.	according to governor of the region bakytzhan bayakhmetov , this work is carried out within the realization of the 36th step of the national plan - 100 concrete steps .	0,50
bringing employees of the company's investors to an age-old responsibility for minor violations of tax rights remains a problematic issue.
In preparing these building rules, attention was paid to the unification of the content of disparate state standards and regulations with their inclusion in the content of the rules.
The document was prepared by the commission in accordance with article 52 of the reintegration treaty.
the law adopted by parliament is sent for signature to the head of state.
Therefore, we must unite with all the people and think about preserving the country.
The head of state noted that the experience of our country made it possible to create conditions for a wider discussion of nuclear weapons.
According to the regional departments, in Aktobe region the work on wet coating is fully completed.
Thanks to the supply of products, we will have a great opportunity to attract investment in our country.
there is also a geolocation service that allows each user to view information about how many good deeds are made from each region.
career development in the public service under the new law depends on the degree of the position, and entry into the public service depends on the results of comprehensive selection and is possible only with low positions.
in particular, women's employment, that is, the development of women's entrepreneurship through the development of new economic opportunities and the elimination of negative cultural traditions and conditions against girls, such as the early marriage issue that violates women's rights.
we tried to show Kazakh art at a better professional level.
for the first time in Kazakhstan and for the first time I interact with members of the armed forces of your country.	as a result , kazakhstan soldiers took the 1st place , the 2nd place - the uk troops , the 3rd place - the united states .	0,51
today the assembly is a unique socio-political institution, "he said.
they print ballot papers.
Among the exhibits donated to the national museum are personal belongings of the people's writer of Kazakhstan, abish kekilbayev and zeynullah alshynbayev, stage costumes of the people's artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the USSR, roses Baglanova and pop singer Madina Yeralieva, a bicycle of the domestic cyclist Alexander vinokurov and a number of other personal items.
this will help our state get out of the global crisis.
agreements with business owners in order to constantly import milk.
In turn, more than 2 thousand people provide jobs. "
Joining the World Trade Organization has expanded its sphere, bringing Kazakh products and the market abroad.
modernization will ensure ecological improvement of the quality of manufactured products and production of high-octane gasoline of ecological class k5 (type euro-5 in the countries of the customs union).
Also, the Chardars were handed the keys to a 24-apartment multi-storey building in honor of the 24th anniversary of independence.
the main activity of the engineering center is the development of innovative technological solutions and the promotion of their introduction into the production processes of machine-building complexes of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union.
he can be nominated by self-nomination or on behalf of the party.
According to him, during the reforms in Kazakhstan, a powerful parliament is needed.
the Ecuadorian side sincerely accepted the assistance provided by the Kazakh.
I am sure that these elections will make it possible to find solutions on various issues.
b.sagintayev noted that China has switched to organic products, which calculates the supply of products from Kazakhstan.
In 28 colleges, elements of dual learning have been introduced.
In a festive mood, the city will be surrounded by an LED flower chain.
Currently, most of the news is spread to our colleagues, but anyone can send a novelty to the web resource, "said one of the compilers of the site Bauyrzhan sadiev.
this is 50% or 4.1 times more than all violations.
- First Secretary of Akmola Regional Kkp Committee
According to K. Tokayev, the world community considers the president N. Nazarbayev is the leader of the anti-nuclear movement, so the issues of a worthy Pugwash conference in Kazakhstan will be worked out in the government.
In the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan, N.A. Nazarbayev noted that vocational and higher education should be focused primarily on maximizing the satisfaction of modern and promising needs of the national economy in specialists.
how to develop business in the new conditions or in what promising areas it is possible to intensify the activities of the non-state sector.
one of them is the Shalkia deposit in Kyzylorda.
it was proposed to include 2 projects implemented with the participation of investors from China in the republican map.
we were the first of all post-Soviet countries to begin the formation of a new personnel corps of public servants on the principles of competition and meritocracy.
in a combination of civilizations and human values along the great silk road, the country of the great steppe has long become an example of humanism and grace. the head of state paid particular attention to the importance of the history of the fate of the turkic-speaking countries .
this line has been disconnected since December 7th).
the Islamic world is in danger of being divided into Sunnis and Shiites.
it ensures the use of safe drugs and drugs in the eeo market.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that due to the development of regions and an increase in house building in the country, the need for such industrial facilities will increase.
Currently, more than 140 foreign investors are working in the field of processing in Kazakhstan.
However, in 2016, the regional grain holding plans to increase to 100 participants, increase processing areas to 1 million hectares.
The winner of the main prize was the College of Education named after Kokshetau, a teacher of methods for familiarizing children with nature and the basics of ecology.
the State always pays attention to this issue and provides maximum support.
and in order to give an answer, he donates some of his source of income, he has such a task.
the need to exchange views between politicians and religious leaders in the new model was long overdue for the sake of speakers.	the religious summit in astana revealed common ground in approaches of statesmen and leaders of religions to the most acute problems of our time ,  chairman of the kazakh senate kassym-zhomart tokayev has said .
each of them appeared at the training camp with the intention of becoming a soldier, becoming a patriot and knowing the true power of military affairs.
After the adoption of the document, the council countries developed general sanitary and epidemiological and hygienic requirements and procedures, clear preparation, approval and cancellation, the announcement said.
As Idrissov noted during the press conference, the Spanish role in cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union and other countries agreed to develop contacts within the framework of the memorandum on close cooperation with the Eurasian Union.
in this regard, the persistence of Kazakh women contributes to the prosperity of their work.
Kazakh parliamentarians themselves turned to the head of state with an initiative to dissolve parliament and hold early elections. the president supported the initiative to dissolve the parliament and hold early elections .
during the meeting, they discussed topical issues on terrorism.
in the daytime it is planned to visit the club by children aged 6 to 18 years, and in the evening - by young people.
all these are consequences of the global economic crisis.
at the initiative of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, we began to actively participate in foreign elections as observers.
Khorgos-east gate "is a transport and logistics hub and driver of the economic development of the region.
we can continue to supply our products to the Uzbek side.	the sides agreed to make efforts for the development of road , rail and air links .	0,51
Therefore, we are a partially privatized company, and in all directions that we conduct, business interests are taken into account, "said A. Aidarov.
state measures to support investments of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev has been paying special attention to the social condition and health of women mothers since the first days of independence.	in our country , the development of gender policy is being controlled by the president of kazakhstan .	0,51
after all, in fact, everything begins with a small bingre.	indeed , everything starts small .	0,51
sixth, the new system for assessing the performance of public administration bodies is based on the principles of mandatory, publicity of external independent audit, feedback from the public, personal responsibility of managers.	sixth , a new system of evaluation of the state bodies ' work is required .	0,51
are provided with quality medical services in health facilities equipped with advanced equipment.	in order to provide quality health services the medical centers are equipped with cutting-edge aerospace defense equipment .	0,51
The action to collect electronic and electric waste will last from April 15 to May 15, 2016.	the campaign will be held from april 15 to may 15 , 2016 .	0,51
citizens most often complain of violations of their rights by law enforcement agencies (25.1% of all complaints), actions and decisions of the courts (24.7%), penitentiary authorities (13.2%), as well as in connection with torture (10%), in state administration (13.1%).	more often citizens complain about violation by the law enforcement agencies , the actions and decisions of the courts , prison officials , the public administration .	0,51
reforms must necessarily receive support from senior management.	the reforms must be supported by senior management , and kazakhstan should continue .	0,51
in addition, some things are decorated with Kazakh ornaments.	at the end of a visit to the mayor of astana bought children 's clothes and accessories .	0,51
lights, such as sunlight, scattered around the shanyrak.	on both right and left of shanyrak there are images of mythical winged quarter horses .	0,51
the projects we have familiarized with are distinguished by their financial model and deep marketing expertise, relevance, practical significance, "he said.
in addition, more than 2 thousand skilled jobs will be created within the framework of akhko.
At the same time, Ahmed Abdallah noted that recently Egyptians have shown great interest in Kazakhstan, so in the future the number of tourists to Kazakh land will increase.
This year, the Ministry will continue the implementation of the third stage of the Action Plan for ensuring the rights and improving the quality of life of persons with disabilities for 2012-2018.
another innovative innovation, which is the introduction of the competitiveness indicator (the principle of meritocracy).	one of the innovations is the introduction of the competitiveness index .	0,51
It is worth noting that in accordance with the Plan of the Nation, it is necessary to change the conclusions of the activities of the monopoly and service in order to bring them into line with the standards of idu.	in accordance with the national plan , the antimonopoly service should focus on the free competition .	0,51
As part of the festive events, five social facilities will be built.	two city high-rise buildings were connected to the central heating .	0,51
special commissions were sent to the regions, candidates were elected by vote of local judges.	in order to improve legal proceedings a new code of civil procedure of kazakhstan has been adopted .	0,51
A sign of the country's unity that the initiative of the Majilis deputies to hold early elections is supported by political parties, public organizations, and Kazakhstanis as a whole.	according to experts , the snap elections will become a sort of updating of the parliament , where new candidates can express themselves , including parties :  nur otan , " communist people 's party of kazakhstan , " auyl , " " ak zhol , " the national social democratic party and others .
kenenbaev courageous abdrahimovich appointed deputy prosecutor general of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of head of the department of law enforcement system of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
He also noted that at present, mobile ballot boxes and other necessary equipment are being checked at polling stations.
Among them are CIS countries with economies in transition, "- said K. Pockets.
We are confident that the March 20 elections are a measure aimed at improving the lives of ordinary citizens.
the crisis affects the countries of the world, including Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that before the elections, meetings in Kazakhstan were repeatedly held television debates.
the ministry is staffed with a competitive staff and is ready to fulfill its tasks.
The Great Patriotic War is an immortalized historical lesson.
therefore, the initiative of deputies to hold early elections in majilis and maslikhats of all levels is quite logical.
Also, the participants were presented with the message of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev "The Way to the Bright Path" and the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
how correct it was to adopt this document in a year until there were major changes in the growth of the world economic situation.
we can achieve our goals, because our country is a place of success, and we can only move forward.	as the general director of the national archives of kazakhstan has noted , kazakhstan 's success lies in the love of peace and friendship between the peoples .	0,51
For a significant contribution to strengthening friendship and cooperation between the Kazakh and Russian people at a meeting of members of the space expedition on behalf of the head of state, T. Musabaev awarded the cosmonaut of Roscosmos Sergey Volkov with the state award of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the Order of Friendship of the 2nd degree ("Friendship").
and noted the practical correctness of the reforms initiated.
I therefore call for a special round table on combating extremism and terrorism.
the storyline of the film covers the period from the childhood of the kerey and the lark to courage, the rule of the country and the creation of the Kazakh khanate.	the plot of the first kazakh historical cartoon  kazakh eli " tells the story of childhood and adulthood of zhanibek and kerei and the creation of the kazakh khanate .
According to him, the successful implementation of the measures of the anti-crisis plan, as well as the coordination of the activities of the government and the national bank will allow to implement the order of the head of state set before the national bank.
products producing goods are not inferior in quality to foreign goods and have low prices.
negotiations were held on freezing products at the level of January this year.
We will bring to the population the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state.
new people should come to the meeting.
entrepreneurs who are ready to build a solar power plant at their own expense.
on this bright holiday, I wish everyone peace, good, spiritual balance and great confidence in the future!
competitions will be held in the Russian Federation.
our lectures have an equal educational character.
individual entrepreneur implementing this project, as
each school has technology classes, a platform is needed to show children that they are learning.
looking at your work and achievements, I realized that you embody the dream of your ancestors.
The names of the winners and prize-winners of the Cup will be known on May 24.
her "world. XXI century, "he said.
The exhibition will be attended by about 300 companies from different countries, representing their products on closed pavilions and open areas, as well as more than 100 Kazakhstani enterprises.
the representative of the German parliament also noted that many women came to the polls.
the technologist and operator mounted the equipment and trained the built Russian specialists.
because now 160 thousand inhabitants live in Kokshetau.
Members of the qualification commission noted the high level of knowledge of judges of the court of Astana and Almaty district court on the current legislation.
the purpose of mutual agreement is not only to support local producers who import substitutes, but also to fulfill obligations to Kazakhstan.
it was important to establish a normal working dialogue with all actors in the financial sector.
87.8% (4126) of employees with higher education by education.
In turn, the chairman of the Senate Committee on Constitutional Legislation, the Judicial System and Law Enforcement Agencies noted that the selection of candidates for judges of the Supreme Court was open.
As part of the action, residents and enterprises of the capital can hand over old equipment, spare parts to it for further disposal in the trading rooms of the technodome and alser.
city residents with technical education can enroll in courses for safety and health engineers.
the leadership of the district is working to increase the number of self-employed.
The 30% increase was noted in the production of food and beverages.
According to the press service of the PIB, the first-aid post of the medical center is actively participating in international registries of medical organizations.
the Ambassador drew attention to the recently issued message.
It is planned that from next year the house will be commissioned.
the presidential message is a socially bright sight. the president 's address is very important and timely document defining the steps towards the implementation of " kazakhstan - 2050 " strategy .
we need to persistently implement the idea of ​ ​ a society of universal labor.
in the future, the company intends to increase the volume of production and the number of workers.
because the man is the owner of the country, and the woman is the house.
At the beginning of the speech, V. Matvienko congratulated her Kazakh colleagues on the successful holding of elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
Foreigners may rent land only for a limited period of time.
in this regard, special attention was paid to the need for a comprehensive and complete study of the personal and professional qualities of candidates for service, an objective assessment of the characteristics of the former job.
To increase the level of professional orientation, representatives of schools in the Atbasar region visited the exhibition of participants in the contest "Creative Laboratory," and also asked interested representatives of colleges.
these include injuries of the prostate gland (thyroid, carotid, sexual gland, etc.), diseases of the nervous system (meningitis, encephalitis), etc.
During the meeting with representatives of the college, Dr. Nazarbayeva noted that it is advisable to learn English without addressing the shortage of the book.
deputy head of the finance department of the region.
The head of state also expressed his opinion on the development of the Eurasian region.
As S. Kulagin noted, measures are being taken in the region to prevent an increase in food prices.
The current message of the head of state gave confidence in the future.
According to the Minister, the message to the people of Kazakhstan set all the tasks, the task of the departments is effective implementation.
The bill was considered in the second reading by the Senate of Parliament.
procedures for the legalization of property are also greatly simplified.
in our opinion, all candidates comply with the recommendations.
culinary culture of Kazakhstan has been going on for centuries.
At the end of last year, the pilot production of white satellite navigation equipment "Kazakhstan Space Visit" was accepted for industrial operation.
The construction of all facilities under the program is carried out taking into account the construction program until 2020 in Almaty.
As the head of state noted, it is necessary to apply diversified methods in each branch of state employees.
All training programmes are tailored to the business proposal.
a good start to bring it and show it to Astana residents, guests of the capital.
According to him, the tax authority has a certificate on the temporary termination of the declaration process.
transition to a three-tier judicial system - a mechanism that allows a wide qualitative and full-fledged explanation of the case with the maximum permissible conditions for improving or increasing the time frame for preparing the case for trial. transiting to a three-tier judicial system , case preparation stage improved and increased in order to make the quality and the case observation much better .
three people work in the workshop.
Thanks to the opening of the happy garden kindergarten, 22 people were employed.
large-scale short-term retraining and staff development.
Today, the unemployment rate in the region is 0.3%.
this plant opened the way to the expansion of the construction of rapid construction houses.
One of them is the opening of this "house of friendship."
16 Kazakh monuments of the great silk road will be included in the list of world cultural heritage, "he said.
the agreement provides for the abolition of indirect taxation of a profitable resident of both states.
as part of a public-private partnership, a martial arts palace of the enterprise will be built in this housing estate.
what standards we are adopting today, in connection with which tomorrow's business area will be created.	alexis rodzianko expressed interest in further development of the dialogue between the american business community and the eurasian economic commission .	0,51
and from the side of transport infrastructure - western Europe - western China. "
my profession is a lawyer, I pay attention primarily to the law, studying the constitution, I learned in what order the elections will be held.
there are obvious signs of a threat ending in such a death.
therefore, I wanted the pension to be small.
The Peter and Paul Heavy Engineering Plant has been cooperating with KT for ten years.
Within the framework of the agreement, a joint working group is planned to identify opportunities and ways of triangular cooperation in various areas of activity.
and the baby bed is 665.
- Member of the Majilis of the v convocation of nurlan zhayylbekov;
in the morning, the military march was divided into two columns, one passed through the streets of Konaev and friendship with the Baiterek monument on the left bank of the capital.
We got into a situation where the most difficult operations are performed by our doctors in our country.
the production capacity of the plant is 120 armored wheeled vehicles per year.
in Italy, due to a shortage of land, the enterprise is not able to develop production.
The project started in 2013 and is being successfully implemented thanks to Kazakh and foreign specialists.
The head of the region wished veterans of the Second World War good health and longevity.
this is a very good thing and distinguishes Kazakhstan from many other states.
for each month, industry directions are defined and contribute to subsequent clustering.
The country has also become the largest supplier of uranium in the Kazakh and French markets.
Recall that after putting the poultry farm into operation, more than 800 new jobs will be created.
at the meeting it is planned to discuss the preparations for the international exhibition "Expo-2017" and the informative equipment of the pavilions under construction.
because at present it is necessary to save funds and spend them correctly.
The meeting participants discussed topical issues of multimedia transport development in the European-Asian direction.
this project will correspond to public-private partnership, in the message the head of state set this task.
According to akim, the coverage of preschool education and education of children aged 1-6 years is 46.9%, children aged 3-6 years - 80.5%.
however, additional preferential requirements of the bank are currently being created, and therefore changes are possible.
The 2017 Winter Universiade competitions will be held in 8 sports in 13 sports.
in the area, the number of cattle is increasing.
this includes 10% in the Republican report.
The road movie epic will be current and modern at any time.
and the guest is confident that the presidency of our country will give a new impetus to the work of this union.
inside the greenhouse, air humidity and temperature are observed.
in addition, the standard is especially important when the Republic of Kazakhstan conducts international construction tenders financed by private investors, the World Bank, ebs, adkb, etc.
95% of the materials used in road repair are domestic products.
silver in the group race among juniors won the ahmetch rinat.
To date, the party has developed a clear action plan with the population of various social groups, adopted a republican network schedule and approved a media plan.
increased funds for improving the qualifications of workers.
France is a global manufacturer of missile systems.
e-commerce is now being actively introduced in China.
the public service consists of various complex reforms and efforts. the civil service is composed of a variety of complex efforts and reforms , it promotes the principle of meritocracy , prevents corruption .
Also, both interested ministries and akimats of the respective regions took the initiative to return the leased land, "Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Lieutenant General Saparov said at a plenary session of the Senate of Parliament.
More than 100 events were organized in the framework of the long week with Rostovites alone, East Kazakhstan region reported.
in addition to the budget loan, the lease of agricultural equipment of Kazagro for economic financing will transfer its own funds.
One of the issues considered on the agenda of the meeting of the Federation Council of the CIS was the chairmanship of Kazakhstan in the CIS in 2015.
cotton yield in the area was 25 centners.
all Kazakhstanis want to live in a stable, calm, prosperous country.	the tasks set by our leaders - unity , stability - we want to , including women in kazakhstan , in general all the people of kazakhstan , to live in a stable , peaceful , prosperous nation .	0,51
If necessary, employees of the station's reference service can communicate with specialists of the language of action and provide the passenger with sign language interpreter services through a two-way video conference. employees of the station may connect with the sign language experts and by means of the video conference they will provide sign interpretation to the passenger , " - the statement reads .
At the same time, the parliament considers it necessary to increase the number of party factions, "said H. Baltaeva.
On the Internet, the Office for Security and Cooperation in Europe missions on democratic institutions and human rights publish that they receive experts in the primary team.
In general, Kazakhstan's indicators in the world rankings against corruption show positive dynamics, but preventive work should be intensified in this area.
in the near future, on the shelves of stores in the Zhambyl region, the sale of local instant carvings, flour and powdered cereals will begin.
Executive Director of the Union of Student Sports of Russia Dmitry Kiselev noted that a delegation of 300 people will come to the competitions in Almaty.
Intensive work on food security, reducing dependence on imports of foreign goods.
Note that today the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Muhamediuly and his deputies, heads of museums, libraries and research institutes reported.
A. Rau told the guest of honor about the measures taken in Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate.
our society is a society of universal work.
development of the machine building industry, "akim said.
Most of foreign direct investment is attracted to priority areas of business, "B. Zhanurazov added.
The Ministry of Energy monitors the coordination of domestic demand and exports in the country and carries out gas production and consumption planning.
It is not for nothing that the ideas and plans of the leader of the nation take place on the eve of the 25th anniversary of independence. it is symbolic and significant that leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev has voiced the new ideas in the year of the 25th anniversary of independence of kazakhstan .
According to the financing plan for 2015, 32 billion tenge was allocated for the purchase of agricultural equipment, at the end of the year the level of implementation of the plan amounted to 130%, worth 41.5 billion tenge - 4,103 units. purchased equipment.
The 440-meter project will be commissioned before the end of the year.
As noted by the Serbian observer, he described his participation in the elections as an observer.
here, in support of the project, the factory issued a loan at 16% per annum.
obtaining a loan for a second-tier bank, which is one of the financing tools, depending on the bank's rating, agricultural producers can pay 7.5-8%.
about 40 international experts participated in these events.
The transition to 5-day education is associated with the renewal of the educational program.
everything we do will be inherited by the next generation of Kazakhstanis.
yesterday we visited more than thirty polling stations, controlled the voting process and talked with election commissions, observers, voters. we observed the voting at more than 30 polling stations in astana .
we must create conditions for these people.
because this is the first visit of the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Czech Republic to the White Guard region.
only citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and non-state legal entities may own agricultural land.
During the conference, we exchanged thoughts on how to effectively combat terrorism.
these requirements can be found on the website of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
oil production with a capacity of 3000 liters per day.
currently the plant's products are used on the construction sites of the capital.
because they are considered in very low percentages, "he said.
now each local resident receives his certificate in the act, not traveling far.
In addition, 1,470 open data sets have been approved so far and will be published by September this year.
there may be some mistakes in holding double elections.
at the plenary session, deadlines will be set for the preparation of an opinion on bills on payments and payment systems, collection activities, employment of the population with accompanying documents.
we will still work in this direction.
I think it is right to allow all of us to begin preparations for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of our country's independence next year, "the head of state said.
Measures are also being taken to improve the skills of civil servants in the implementation of the National Plan. during the implementation of the national plan the measures to improve the skills of civil servants , increasing the practical orientation of the program in training , are taken .
During each spring and autumn draft campaign in the republic, about 120 thousand people visit the medical draft commission.
I make your decisions as intentions to support the policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said Askar Myrzakhmetov, First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party.
transforms this company into a low-cost producer.
The leaders of the two countries exchanged views on the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh, given that both the Russian side and the Kazakh side got in touch with the presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
this calls the judges and other participants in the court session to order, ensures the objectivity of the trial process and the decision taken by the court.
Together with Japan, as co-chair of the Hawks Review Conference, Kazakhstan intends to work towards progress on this issue.
economic integration, financial markets, transport, agriculture, customs and others.
each worker allocates a minimum amount of his income to a special fund.
in particular, he informed representatives of the media about the rules of electoral legislation regarding the organization of garden activities at the electoral stage, the procedure and conditions for the election campaign of parties and candidates through the media, and also drew attention to the basic principles of reporting on the election campaign, "said L. Suleimen.
these are favorable conditions for the population, you give work and pay taxes, "said the head of state.
it begins with terrorist acts, street exits and noises.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev presented a unique national plan.
Therefore, it cannot be said that people aged 30 to 40 are young.
Also, East Kazakhstan region will be defined as a pilot site, schools of the region will be the first to be transferred to this training system.
Director of the center Farida Yeszhanova spoke about non-standard methods used in its center, and also noted the need to increase the number of such institutions in the city.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, in his manifesto, the President noted that there will be no winners in today's war.
- 200 953 services in paper form, i.e. 8% of the total number of services rendered, were provided by the State body (subordinate organization);
The JSC plans to increase the number of small markets.
all this is a search for homogeneity.
this is the result of a long work that lasted three years.
Compared to 2014, in 2015, the consideration of a civil case increased by 5,510 cases or by 9%.
as a result, packing and controllability of the pontoon-bridge fleet transportation base is increased.
and this time we hope to come to Almaty in full force.
However, within the framework of the development of these actors, the forum demonstrates an attractive force and breakthrough.
the authorities of your country rejoice in the prospects and have a long-term plan. today kazakhstan is voting for new members of the parliament .
for which political party did you vote for citizens when leaving polling stations? " "I wondered.
has been repeatedly explained, and I said that this is not true.
The issue of free technical and vocational education in the future is especially pleasing.
In turn, all the measures taken made it possible to increase the combat capacity of the armed forces by 1.5 times.
Exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
During the meeting Mayor of Almaty Baurzhan Baibek noted that a year later, on January 28, 2017, the World Universiade will be inaugurated, collegiate competitions will be held from January 29 to February 8.
And now we continue to work in this area. "
it requires a parent's identity card, a marriage certificate, a medical birth certificate or a copy of the court's decision to establish the birth.
Currently, we have begun to implement the master plan for aquaculture, "he said.
this exhibition opens on the eve of Independence Day.
Kazakh manufacturers will have the opportunity to work directly with domestic and foreign distributors.
we were very interested in the experience of processing agricultural products here, primarily the experience of growing tomatoes.
Akims of districts of the capital presented a detailed photo-report on the state of the roadway.
its total trading area is 12,000 square meters.
The new model of the evaluation system will evaluate three areas: achievement of strategic goals, assessment of interaction with citizens, organizational development of state bodies. as part of the implementation of the step 93 , a law on state audit and financial control was adopted .
it is planned to be implemented in stages and dedicated to the 100th anniversary, "said N. Nazarbayev.
More than 40 official delegations of defense departments of foreign countries arrived at the tender 2016, as well as more than 350 companies producing military equipment from different countries, which also presented their products.
in a new format, law enforcement agencies worked during the past year.
the embankment will also be fully landscaped and illuminated.
issues of servicing tourists in the village of Akshi.
However, he noted that underpasses intended for the crossing of four graduates should be convenient for local residents.
A polling station operated at the Palace of Peace and Harmony from 7-00 o'clock, and by 11:00 the head of state came to the vote.
Our country accounts for more than 70% of Poland's foreign trade with Central Asia (over the past 15 years, the volume of bilateral trade has increased 10 times).
for the first time in anticipation of the Universiade, an athletic town will be built.
thanks to the opening of the poultry farm, more than one hundred thousand jobs will appear and will improve the capacity and water supply of the Bulandyn region.
It is expected that today the guests and speakers of the forum will visit the facilities of the world exhibition.
the protocol is aimed at creating an information security system, preventing disparate information impacts and emergencies in the information sphere, as well as creating a legal basis for cooperation between special services of member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization and law enforcement agencies.
For the first time I see a company for the production of hygienic products, "he said.
all publications containing election campaigning should reflect information on funding sources, "said the CEC chairman.
losers should be able to leave or start from the beginning.
we all see, know and observe it.
During the two days of the hermitage, topical issues such as lectures, seminars, master classes, meetings, joint activities with the International Council of Museums, as well as the development of museum spheres within the framework of international museum projects, such as a virtual exhibition on the hermitage, were discussed.
he also emphasized that the celebration of the anniversary of independence is based on such "established values" as freedom, unity, stability, creation, prosperity.
aset issekeshev stressed that the Kazakh side highly appreciates the contribution of masayoshi kamohara to the expansion and strengthening of trade and economic relations between the two countries.
the goal is to strengthen economic and cultural ties between the two areas, exchange experience, provide their products and reduce the share of imports.
they, knowing that they will not be punished, implement the criminal plans they created.
As for the placement of yuek in Kazakhstan, the Minister noted that the department is currently developing a plan mechanism by increasing the competitiveness of industrial facilities.
On May 5, 2015, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state instructed to introduce a single buyer model. "
During the summit, Abdykalikova held a number of meetings with official representatives of the Polish republic.
he drew particular attention to the peculiarities of ethnic Kazakhs living in Germany.
in his report, he outlined the main directions of the regional plan.
all this indicates the implementation of the tasks of creating a single space. this means that the tasks start to be implemented .
this will strengthen cooperation and unlock the potential of the countries of the region by reviving the great silk road.
Grants are provided to low-income member countries on a grant basis to finance their social programmes, improve the quality of education and health care.
Only last week, the energy launch of the research reactor vvr-k, which has undergone modernization to replace low-enriched uranium fuel and a high neutron flux, was completed in Alma-Ata. last week almaty completed the energy start of a research reactor vvr-k after its modernization turned into the low enriched uranium fuel and a significant increase of neutron flux .
It is assumed that by 2040 oil consumption will decrease by 40%, "the expert said.
in Russia, this day is widely celebrated.
The main purpose of today's action is to draw public attention to the issue of preserving the national historical and cultural heritage, to appeal to the museum with an appeal to present for public viewing historical and significant objects left by outstanding personalities of our nation. the purpose of the campaign - to draw public attention to the preservation of national , historical and cultural heritage .
he said that as part of the implementation of the new state program, a public health system will be created on the basis of optimizing the epidemiological service and nutrition, combining the formation of a healthy lifestyle.
if we want to stop capital outflows from Kazakhstan and thus guarantee the safety of existing international investments, we should not excite investors.	the holding of the election will only strengthen such institution as the parliament ,  the expert added .
and the process will begin at 10:30 or 11 o'clock.
they are the main strategic directions of our country.
in his report, he noted the relevance of the conference theme.
According to the results of the visit, G. Abdykalikova gave a number of instructions to state bodies.
The head of the Central Election Commission familiarized Mr. Fletz with the work on preparing for the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament and maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and also spoke about the current work of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the electoral bodies as a whole.
At the end of the working trip, y.oxamite shared his opinion and noted the importance of the work in the field of health.
for example, favorable conditions have been created for patients, full provision of patients with medical types and medicines has been achieved in accordance with the protocol of diagnosis and treatment.
The election observation mission is the largest form of diacb activity.
this will reduce seasonal volatility in vegetable prices.
He noted that more than 120 projects are being considered in the field of energy, infrastructure, tourism, banking and metallurgy.
the great contribution of professors of Christianity to the strengthening of interfaith relations.
It is emphasized that amendments require careful discussion.
therefore, this year the appointment of a day of gratitude is a very wise decision.
state policy in the field of immunoprophylaxis is aimed at preventive measures and is based on the localization and elimination of infectious diseases in conditions of external transportation.
we have 1,600 historical monuments, an open-air museum is opened in the center of Taraz, where 33 thousand artifacts are stored.
the gratitude of ethnic groups to each other and the Kazakh people is a requirement of history. i think that the expression of gratitude to the kazakhs , as well as to different ethnic groups to each other is a requirement of our time .
At present, it is not possible to combat a protracted economic downturn without a diversification process based on a profit from raw materials and traditional sectors of the economy.
It is worth noting that during the year the metropolitan economic association took part in more than 150 city and republican events, organized 37 charity events as part of the relay race "20 years-20 good deeds."
According to the President of Kazakhstan, 3.8 trillion tenge was invested in the construction of enterprises, in turn, enterprises produced products worth 5.4 trillion tenge.
In accordance with decision No. 1 on the concept, the governments of the EAEU member states need to ensure the implementation of the concept based on national priorities.	according to the decision no.1 of the concept , the eaeu states governments need to ensure the implementation of the concept on the basis of national priorities .	0,52
thirdly, the new system of remuneration of civil servants is established by law depending on their qualifications and the nature, volume and results of the work performed.	thirdly , the new remuneration system will be introduced in the civil service sphere .	0,52
active preparations are underway for polling day.	however , the voter lists continue to be updated .	0,52
During the period under review, agricultural exports will increase by 4.5 per cent.	it is planned to increase the cost volumes of agro-food exports by 4.5 % , including by mutual trade .	0,52
the meeting was held in the format of a video conference, the participants of which were the heads of all regional branches and regional representative offices of the party.	the meeting was held online with all the regional branches of the party and the apk .	0,52
The document was signed by the acting akim of Mangistau region Swindyk Aldashev, deputy chairman of the board of ukp. Nurzhan altayev, deputy chairman of Almek Holding Group JSC, is a generous nurabai.
it will be the largest national team. historically , that russia is very serious to participate in the world university games .
According to him, the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to hold this year an international forum of the United Nations at a high level cannot be left indifferent.
At the end of the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions.
To date, the bulk of the improvement of the Karatal River embankment has been completed.
at the same time, the President of Kazakhstan emphasized that the state of concern is up to the level that makes it possible to pretend that it is necessary to touch the roots of uranium enrichment.
Today we are actively preparing for the exhibition.
The first such center in the republic was launched in Kyzylorda region, the Governor's office reported.
safe, quality nutrition will be distributed throughout the country.
in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the party also repeats in this cooperation the conditions shown to investors of the other party to national investors or investors of third countries. in accordance with the agreement , the parties are to provide the investors the most favorable conditions .
this flag from Moscow to Berlin itself, our soldiers carried from the front and laid the flag of fascist Germany.
therefore, we inform until we know what jobs are in which region, what profession is needed, "said V. Baimanov.
a. Dzhaksybekov outlined the main directions for the implementation of the message.
The head of state called the creation of a global anti-nuclear movement the most important task.
Thanks to this, social facilities are being built in the country and appropriate conditions are being created.
Such violations are also found in other areas of the region.
In addition, the CEC trained the organizers of the elections.
the first cargo transportation was concluded as part of the agreement on the development of transport and logistics communication between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the PRC on increasing container traffic.
in the area of ​ ​ northern turnover, the logistics center is 8 hectares.
In total, 52 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2016.	according to the sales plan for 2014 - 2016 , 52 republican properties will be privatized .	0,52
In addition, income from taxes in the enterprise sector yields positive results.	in addition , the positive effect is in an income from taxes .	0,52
most often interested in private institutions with low fees.	and most of all , they enter a private institution with the lowest cost of training .	0,52
basic kraza-255b cars are planned to be replaced with more modern kamaz-63502 cars.	pmp floating bridge is designed for equipment of bridge and ferry crossings over water obstacles .	0,52
Thus, as of February 18, 2016, the Central Election Commission accredited 52 observers from 2 missions of international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis).	the composition included the head of the cis observation mission sergey lebedev and the head of the mission headquarters yevgeny sloboda .	0,52
According to the Vice Minister, oil prices in Russia will depend on the world structure.	our ministry has submitted estimates that it will be possible to give 80 tenge per liter .	0,52
The Minister also noted that a summit of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation is planned in Turkey in April, a shu will be held in Tashkent, and a meeting of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking States will be held in Kyrgyzstan.	foreign minister informed that turkey planned to hold the summit of the islamic cooperation organization .	0,52
The BCW concept is aimed not only at maximizing the benefits of sound business, but also at improving their own environment through voluntary investment in relevant public institutions.	the concept of corporate social responsibility implies that the rational interests of business oriented it not only to maximize profits , but also to improve its own environment ( political , social and economic ) by voluntary investments in the appropriate public institutions .	0,52
As noted by Academician O. Kolobov, the plan of the Kazakh nation will contribute to the prosperity of Kazakhstan and the development of Eurasian integration.	according to academician o. kolobov , the kazakh national plan is a landmark document that will contribute to the prosperity of our country and the development of the eurasian integration .	0,52
Mikayelyan narine Hamletovna - Chairman of the Luis Armenian Cultural Center, member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
All countries that have achieved success over the past half century have begun without exception.
The forum was attended by 30 speakers and 400 delegates from 50 countries.
Currently, many citizens receive public services online, so we accept many questions about how and where to get an electronic digital signature (esque). now a great number of citizens receive government services online , so there are many calls on electronic digital signature .
in the second group there are 152 States in which nuclear materials are found in small quantities or not at all.
The opening of the plant was attended by akim sko erik of the sultans.
magerrams magerram mamedovich, secretary of Almaty central committee "khkp"
The Chairman of the Accounting Committee noted that the spheres of technical, professional and post-secondary education play a large role in the development of our economy.
they will represent 306 sets of medals in 42 sports.
In 2016, large-scale events will be organized on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of independence.
The purpose of signing the memorandum is to support socially vulnerable segments of the population.
Recall that in January 29, the XVII Extraordinary Congress of the Nur Otan Party was held in the capital under the chairmanship of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
Thanks to this, millions of ordinary Kazakhstanis will receive labor permits for life.
Another achievement of the Center for Motherhood and Childhood was the opening of a medical and genetic department.
each member of society has a direct influence on the development of society of its upbringing and behavior. every member of the society , starting with the young age , should know that his behavior will be reflected throughout the development of the society .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also expressed gratitude to Senegal for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
their number to date has exceeded 608 thousand.
according to information provided at the polling station.
Timely and appropriate measures for the political advancement of women.
a unique project in this country will be launched in the near future.
Threats from the outside still exist.
many interesting laboratories were discovered under the German society.
in which cities can children start flying from rocket fire?
The land plot for the construction of the plant was allocated last year with the assistance of the Governor's Office of the North Kazakhstan region.
In addition to Member States, the event will be attended by 15 other States and 18 international organizations that have observer status.
Three domestic products were manufactured by Kazakhstani specialists in the coming day.
this will create jobs.
I am happy to announce that the next forum will be held on June 22-23, 2017 at one of the expo places, "he said.
During the day, 4 waves of surveys were conducted.
the best athletes of the Asian continent arrived in the Chinese city of Guangzhou.
for example, n.nazarbayev spoke about the hyphosate of herbicides.
Start at school age and gradually increase education.
it is composed of representatives of various States.
The meeting resulted in relevant recommendations.
because we need to update.
you have developed infrastructure in all areas.
Measures taken by the Ministry and the Government to address the crisis caused by low hydrocarbon prices were also considered.
therefore, Hungary has a programme for the development of vocational education.
In addition, in a single format with a standard set of data established in the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, money is allocated from the republican budget for an information poster about candidates.
Kazakhstanis face the task of the legislative body to get people who successfully implement the upcoming goals, "said R. Aumetov.
Kaztransoil is the national operator of the white main oil pipeline, the largest oil transportation company of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
yesterday we witnessed the preparation of polling stations.
we must work hard and successfully to maintain this level of people's well-being.	according to him , the younger generation has no idea of time when their parents faced difficult moments without stability and social perception .	0,53
the plan addresses the root causes of war and conflict.	its main goal is to eliminate the root causes of wars and conflicts .	0,53
A national thousand children, "with the participation of 235,000 children, 7,863 events were held.
I think that it can be turned into a useful forum where finance ministers could communicate with each other at the regional level, "said the head of the IMF.
the first prison within the framework of public-private partnership will be built in Shymkent.
currently, the appeal to the Supreme Court is a very complex and large problem.	now , to appeal to the supreme court is a very serious and big problem .	0,53
Eurasian monitoring. "
we cannot allow the voice of extremism to exceed that of reason.
issues of protecting public order, countering domestic crime, ensuring road safety and disrespect for petty offenses.
food prices increased by 3.2%, non-food - by 2.6%, paid services for the population - by 3.1%.
implementation of these agreements will be a clear step towards modernization of the industry and will increase innovative development and competitiveness.
Among them are a project to finance a rehabilitation seaport, oil refining and petrochemicals projects, and the expansion of export and transit transport.
It is nice that after inspecting the construction site, I brought my impressions to you.	nursultan nazarbayev added that the preparations process itself will start right after that .	0,53
The need to promote the most educated and conscientious employees in order to form a high-quality personnel reserve was also noted.	it was also noted that in order to create high-quality talent pool the promotion must be received by the most competent and conscientious staff .	0,53
calls for reason and dialogue, patience and reason should not become victims of information attacks by rivals of the global world.	calls for reason and dialogue , restraint and common sense should not be the targets of attacks by those opposing global peace .	0,53
loan term - maximum 5 years, loan currency - tenge, price of one unit of passenger transport - maximum 9,000,000 tenge, down payment (if any) - maximum 20% of the purchased transport price.	according to the press service , the funds have been sent to four commercial banks for lending of individuals to purchase cars , assembled in kazakhstan .	0,53
The drop in the average price of brent oil from $54 per barrel in the first quarter of 2015 to $34 per barrel in the first quarter of 2016 was partially offset by an increase in the average exchange rate of tenge to the dollar by 92%, as a result of which the company's revenue in tenge increased.	as the average price of brent oil reduced to $ 34 per barrel the average exchange rate increased by 92 % , as a result , the company 's revenue in tenge has grown .	0,53
investors will receive more than 363 permits and licenses per window. "
That is, today society is given a good opportunity to make its choice.
Also, constant work at these enterprises decides the fate of 1.5 thousand people working in 45 organizations of Kazakhoil Aktobe LLP.
usually the crisis weakens political stability.
the Dutch delegation included large producers of agricultural products in the field of crop and animal husbandry, as well as representatives of several financial institutions in the country.
The memorandum, aimed at consolidation and fruitful cooperation in production and science, provides for an increase in the volume of agricultural sector products through the economic introduction of scientific projects, increasing its competitiveness, thereby increasing the potential and innovative development of the agro-industrial sector of the region.
it would therefore be difficult for Parliament to obtain national support.
there should be positive changes in health care in the next five years.
their winners were awarded cups, medals and valuable gifts.
Measures strengthening the independence of the judiciary are of particular importance.
I have always said that the crisis continues and will be a wave.
- What became the main factor of creation of Kazakh khanate five and a half thousand years ago?
we must have advanced technical personnel, world-class infrastructure, public order and personal security of people.
women working in various fields received awards from the akim of the region.
increased sailing time of air defense forces in the sky.
This enterprise in 2017 produces packaging bricks and roof tiles, providing 100% of the domestic market.
Since last year, such a mechanism has already been used.
In addition, the new speed meters are equipped with special spotlights, where at night you can see state rooms.
a striking example is the law on land issues.
in the article of each Kazakh leader should be deeply understood the essence and content.
implementation of these plans will expand the bank's network of financial products.
I want to say that the people actively voted and there were no violations.
The delegation of Kazakhstan called to support the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan on countering violent extremism and combating terrorism, put forward in September 2015 at the summit of the UN General Assembly at the highest level.	in his speech , kazakhstan 's delegation strongly supported the efforts of the un and the  action plan for the prevention of violent extremism activities , " emphasized the importance of taking decisive and coordinated action at the regional and international levels and an active involvement of regional organizations to counter violent extremism and terrorism .
he recalled that the land reform commission was created on behalf of the head of state N. Nazarbayev.
The head of state made a timely decision on holding meetings and elections of maslikhats at all levels. in my opinion , it is a very timely decision , because we need to continue reforming .
As K. Zhakupov noted, one of the most important tasks of the chairmanship was the implementation of the plan of main measures for the preparation and conduct of the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
sociological surveys also show stable high support for all five reforms of the national plan.
Reconstruction is the installation of new installations for working with modern technologies, "the Governor of the region noted.
this document is aimed at identifying and returning persons who illegally left the country's border or left after the expiration of the visa or permit.
on this path he informed about the legislative and legal benefits on the part of our country.
In addition, he said, due to the lack of networks to participate in eat in a wider format, Germany was limited from observer status.
the fund will work primarily as a commercial organization.
In March, in connection with the passage of the electoral trend, we will have a future.
It is planned to implement a package of products produced within the framework of the customs union by 2020 to increase the level of localization to 80%.
As a result of the meeting, participants were given specific instructions and recommendations.
Additional measures to encourage private investment in priority sectors of the economy.
From 2013 until his appointment to the post of head of the local police service of East Kazakhstan region he was the head of the department of internal affairs of East Kazakhstan region.
During the meeting, the head of the Directorate for preparations for the Universiade-2017 Winter Games, Asset Abdoualiyev, spoke about the preparations for the competitions in Almaty.
Farmers show great interest in the construction of large typical feedlots.
obtaining energy effect from implementation of five institutional reforms.
In promoting the business community, the states of the union will be able to familiarize themselves with the problem of eliminating barriers in the process of working through online mode.
I know that Norway has a lot of experience in this area.
we see a decrease in demand from the population for foreign currency.
On behalf of the head of state, special attention is paid to attracting foreign investment.	ye . hairov cited some figures regarding investments attracted to the country .	0,53
This year, this work will be carried out until the end of May.	the commission is chaired by deputy prime minister dariga nazarbayeva .	0,53
Currently, Retaila-a LLP plans to attract additional credit funds as part of state support in order to increase production capacities.
militarism has deepened into the consciousness and behavior of people.
This type of multilateral document begins to look confidently at the prospects of Kazakhstanis.
agreements have been reached with many European countries.
the main events unfolded in a difficult time for the Kazakh people - the years of collectivization, war and subsequent ones.
It is worth noting that this year the contest "Қaza Araui" is held for the sixth time.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
our web portal is running.
During the visit, a representative of the Lipensky municipal and council of mayors of Louchovitsa met with the Jan cube, and also presented the investment, export and trade and economic basis of Kazakhstan, the report said.
In addition, Kazakhstan will be recognized as one of the leaders in the world.
sulphuric acid solution is applied as electrolyte to acid accumulator.
review and discussion of budget programme execution by the budget programme administrator, strategic plans, government and government programmes; discussion of reports of executive bodies on achievement of target indicators; discussion of reports on the execution of plans for the receipt and expenditure of money from the sale of goods (works, services), on the receipt and expenditure of money from charity; participation in the development and discussion of draft normative legal acts relating to the rights, freedoms and duties of citizens; consideration of applications of individuals and legal entities on the improvement of public administration and the organization of open work of the state apparatus, including compliance with standards of performance ethics and others.
The head of the Committee on Physical Culture and Sports of Ukraine Mikhailo Melnik noted that currently athletes are preparing for the upcoming competitions.
In the training center of the central district in Shchuchinsk Akmola of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the republican championship in military applied sports among pre-conscription youth was held.
The head of the region, in turn, proposed using the public-private partnership mechanism to solve this problem.
It was noted that media editors had an obligation to ensure equal access for parties and candidates by conducting an objective demonstration of the election campaign.
May the peace of our country flourish and flourish!
We also plan to reduce the number of employees to 15%.
It is very important for us that outstanding individuals pass into the party, who, as you yourself, have achieved great success in literature, culture, art and sports and become the pride of the country.
30-35% of the gasoline market comes from Russia. the level of prices for petroleum products in kazakhstan is determined by the level of wholesale prices for petroleum products in russia .
As part of the action, the train delegation met with residents, held consultations on various issues, and also conducted a medical examination in four clinics in Aktobe.
During the working visit, the Secretary of State also visited the World Association of Kazakhs and got acquainted with its work.
The event also discussed the issues of supporting domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers, attracting investments in pharmaceutical facilities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and improving the system of supply of medicines and medical products to the Kazakh market.
it is no secret that Kazakhstan was at the head of the policy of leading language and unity.
According to the executive head of the regional program for the introduction of dual education in Kazakhstan, rainer Gortz, the dual education system is dynamically developing in eastern Kazakhstan.
The leader of the nation revealed many pressing problems.
according to the investor, during this period the company is trying to bring its effective management to the project.
Within the framework of the meeting of the Heads of Government of the two countries, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017 JSC Akhmetzhan Yessimov and the Ambassador of the Netherlands Kingdom to Kazakhstan hans drisser signed an agreement on the participation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in the international exhibition Astana Expo 2017.
this is a differential post, special software, navigation consumer equipment of the geodetic class accuracy, navigation equipment for operational call in case of accidents, accidents.
I believe that the early election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a timely decision. i consider that snap elections of the deputies in the majilis is timely .
about 500 students from all regions of the republic and republican educational organizations took part in the competition.
the number of small and medium-sized businesses in 2014 amounted to 93 thousand, currently - up to 105 thousand.
According to him, the election campaign uses not only the traditional garden, but also social networks.
Nuclear power is today an efficient green energy.
this is done in connection with the completion of competence.
also, according to him, there is an opportunity to get a job abroad.
The reconstruction of the hr fund model is one of the priority priorities that corresponds to the strategic interests of the holding.	today , companies provide many initiatives such as the development of leadership potential of top managers , active learning and self-development , mentoring .	0,53
energy of the future of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
Thanks to the efforts made in recent years, many joint ventures have been established.
Heads of State specified the concept of creating common oil markets.
To ensure effective work, we propose to approve these groups in the ministry.
B.Sultanov also focused on another problem.
Aktobe tourist companies have prepared more than 60 tourist routes in various directions.
One of the first we advertised ourselves at stops and entrances.
We must not forget that there is still a danger, about 767 people work in Kazakhstan in dangerous working conditions.
in addition, the city has a "investor service center."
this is 3 times more than in the previous five years.
As the head of the department noted, the adoption of this law does not leave a socio-economic effect.
Starting next year, the company will begin to fulfill orders from Azerbaijan. we have signed an agreement .
when considering an application, mainly his knowledge and practical experience are taken into account.
as well as the use of weapons and technical means, the protection and protection of ships and groups of ships.
We can say that as a result of this work, the khan initiated all charitable events in the country.
therefore, I think it is right that representatives of all nationalities gather and adhere to the same direction.
On March 6 Governor of Aktobe region Berdybek saparbayev visited the trade fair of goods producers of Kyzylorda and Aktobe regions, organized within the framework of interregional cooperation.
This year, 2,000 companies from 192 countries will take part in the exhibition.
at the same time, they signed a memorandum with the CD.
equalization of wages in the state apparatus.
Currently, cyclists participate in personal and group competitions on the highway of the island of Oshima.
A. Spence said he wants to see Kazakhstan's democracy in practice.
we need to review the entire system of public revenues and expenditures.
why are you interested in all this?
According to the press service, the bureau did not ignore the issues of the distribution of mutual duties between the deputy chairmen of the meeting of the Gulmira Ishimbayeva and Vladimir Bozhko.
In this regard, the modernization of street lighting facilities between the Governor's Office of the region and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has begun.
all consultations and meetings were held in accordance with the law.	new members of majilis should contribute to the preservation of the nation 's heritage .	0,53
the building consists of 6 buildings connected to each other by a gallery.	the building of the hospital consists of six separate buildings connected by a gallery .	0,53
the subjects of legalization, the contribution of money to bank accounts, as well as without making them, are given the opportunity to choose a way to legalize money.	the subjects of legalization are given an opportunity to select the way of legalization of money as a cash investment in the bank accounts , or without their attachments .	0,53
In this regard, on behalf of the head of state, work is underway to update the project.	however , the economic conditions and the situation in the country changed .	0,53
During the meeting, issues such as the effective use of agricultural land, innovations in the field of construction, as well as planned changes in tax legislation were discussed.	the meeting was attended by representatives of government , local authorities , agricultural producers , ngos .	0,53
more than half a million years of our history were shown in theatrical productions.	in the future the alley will be a place for the rest and one of the prominent attractions of the region .	0,53
Preliminary monitoring data show that, in general, the requirements of the electoral law to ensure equal access of political parties and candidates to the media in campaigning, as well as equal coverage of the activities of parties and candidates, are met.	according to the press service , the preliminary monitoring of data show that the requirements of the electoral law on ensuring equal access of the political parties and candidates to the media during their election campaign , as well as on equal coverage of the activities of the parties and candidates , are generally respected .	0,53
The President of Parliament called upon the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to participate in the event in a manner convenient to it.	the chairman of the majilis has invited the osce to participate in this exhibition .	0,53
A single standard table is drawn up for schools, according to which universities submit applications for meetings with students in schools.	these measures are introduced in order to streamline promotion campaigns of the universities without the distraction from the educational process , the department reported .	0,53
a, almonds "and the construction of a large furniture factory, a factory for the assembly of strollers.
In his speech, the head of the Kazakh delegation emphasized the importance of the international initiatives of the head of state N. Nazarbayev to counter extremism at the UN summit in September 2015.
Name the country that did not form these three sectors that form part of the EU economy.
I recall that all five reforms form a single national future.
2.5 million students attend school per year.
at the same time, generals and officers are given special importance.
According to the Governor's Office, e. Sultanov instructed the deputy akim of the region anarkhan dusenov to consider the implementation of preschool places on the road map.
Mayor of Bauyrzhan Baibek noted the venue of innovative projects.
public authorities in accordance with the register of public services provide only 354 types of services, including 180 types in omo, 174 types.
agriculture, textile and garment production, construction industry, services, trade, vocational and technical education, urban infrastructure development.
at a certain stage, people did not know what kind of institution it was, but today we have made sure that kha does not in vain increase the degree of a constitutional body. earlier , people did not realize the scale of this institution , but today the apk has the status of a constitutional body .
25.el.kz. with the help of social service, users of all social networks at some point transfer their avatars to an avatar decorated with a festive, patriotic hint.
an intergovernmental agreement bringing together 50 member countries of the energy charter.
within the framework of the extraordinary XII Congress of the rural Khdpp, they will take part in planning the jobs of the congress, as well as in the early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the election program of the aul party.
He also noted that Kazakhstanis who came to the polling stations treated the sounding anthem of the republic with such respect - people listened to it in their hearts.
I think that the initiative to dissolve the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections is correct, secondly, a historical event, thirdly, a big opportunity for young people. the implementation of anti-crisis measures and large-scale modernization of the country require immediate attention of the government agencies and civil society .
in these circumstances, it is important to emerge from the crisis situation and maintain stability of development.
According to the UN Permanent Coordinator in Kazakhstan, Scandinavian countries are leading the world in the field of gender balance.
a phased program for the population is indicated. "
The jury will consider complaints of citizens in connection with the actions of judges and the circumstances of violation of the ethical code expected to be adopted by representatives of the judiciary.
these are public leaders, businessmen, and so on.
10 years since the launch of the Kazakhstan e-government portal. the portal was launched on april 12 , 2006 .
there is no other format in the world, not everyone can gather and discuss not a sports issue.
Today, the country's pediatricians provide 10 per 3.6 thousand people, which is twice the rate of the European Union.
the number of private guarantees increased by 3 thousand people. " Merkel reported.
The price corridor of the product range is aimed at a wide range of Kazakhstani consumers.
The work of the forum will be covered by more than 400 media.
now they can get the necessary information using a sign language interpreter.
107 deputies will be elected at the meeting, 3335 to local maslikhats.
Firstly, this year, at the initiative of the head of state, the implementation of the practical stage of 5 institutional reforms of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation will begin.
81 applications are already under consideration.
I think that in the near future such opportunities should be in all medical institutions of the country, "he said.
For the purpose of emergency-free passage of floods through hydraulic structures, preventive measures on the sections of river massifs, an anti-flood commission was created.
it is aimed at updating the system of state construction and promotion of Kazakhstan within the framework of the main parameters of Kazakhstan's development and a large-scale strategic project, modernization with the main position of evolutionary, universal, social and economic updates.
The Library of Parliament pays special attention to the issues of ensuring the legislative activity of the Chambers, the preparation of bibliographic and reference information materials for the bills under discussion, parliamentary hearings and events held by Parliament.
The decision to increase the Kashagan project is planned to be made in 2017, and the commissioning of new facilities in 2020.
however, one should not think that Iranian arrival will quickly reduce prices.
today, the company employs about 600 people.
adoption by the Head of State of a declaration on peace in general and the achievement of a free nuclear country.
sometimes I stand on my head when there is time.
In addition, it is planned that in the next ten days early maturation potatoes will enter the market shelves.
more than 200 schoolchildren study there.
the judge cannot either disable the subscription.
international capital "and international arbitration centre.
When manufacturing a fighter vessel, proposals were taken into account by military units operating such vessels to improve the characteristics associated with the living conditions of the crew, maneuvering and other characteristics of the vessel.
ahko will become a center for attracting investor capital and advanced knowledge.
The growth enterprise invests in the development of products and the modernization of the main fund.
The 25th anniversary of our independence coincided with a difficult period in terms of global development.
- Moldash zhanat abdigaliula, first secretary of khkp aktobe regional committee
A special presentation was held at UN headquarters in Geneva and New York.
What do you think this will change your whole life?
Also last week, the opening of the headquarters department in Alma-Ata was announced, where the processes in southern Kazakhstan will be discussed in detail.
The deputies of the 5th convocation completed their activities, they prepared the legal framework for the implementation of the reform of 100 concrete steps. "
As the Prosecutor General noted, the creation of a system of high-quality personnel support is one of the most important tasks facing the supervisory authorities.
During the working trip, Mr. Minister visited the special economic zone "South," where he got acquainted with the technological process of the textile and clothing network.
the issue of the fourth opinion will be considered against the background of further growth.
One of the important reports in the framework of the message is the fulfillment of social obligations, the strengthening of actions in the framework of crisis measures.
these programs support domestic producers and provide for high-quality performance of work.
in particular, two options for cooperation are being considered: the first - the creation of a joint venture with a parallel republic; the second is the supply of silicon on a contractual basis.
According to the press service of the national company, a. Mamin held bilateral meetings in Tehran with the heads of a number of companies in the transport industry and enterprises.
using a computer, citizens are selected and selected depending on the relevant requirements.
More than 300 representatives of ethnocultural associations will take part in national holidays.
Nұr Otan should pay special attention to the problems of the country and be at the beginning of this work.
this is evidence of the high efficiency of our parliamentary model and the system of interaction between the plenipotentiary and executive branches of state power.
For the first time, representatives of Pakistani parliaments took part in activities to promote cooperation between Shu and Shu.
In order to increase labour mobility, measures should be introduced, first of all, to encourage migration to regions where there is a shortage of labour in regions with excess labour.
a special portal "metsenat.kz" will be created, where potential patrons will be produced, a charity portal.
application for participation in the auction is accepted up to 9 hours on the web portal of the registry.
he noted that the activity of the state is determined by law.
The initiative of the head of state to create a day of gratitude is very relevant.
this is a sign of the confidence of the business community in the region.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan unity will have a unique, historically civilized and ethnocultural influence.
an instructor led by a driver and mentor to drive a locomotive.
it is through it that feedback is provided to the population, the importance of ongoing reforms is explained.
recently a new kindergarten was opened in the Zaisan district.
The film covers the period of time from 1930 to the present.
According to the Shmitts, holding the "expo-2017" in the capital will create favorable conditions for the diversification of the Kazakh economy.
Deputies of the Seimas exchanged views on the importance of strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Council, which achieved significant success in the further development of a democratic society.
At the same time, the Majilis speaker called on his Turkmen counterpart to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit.
The way out of global crises does not depend on us.
Adaulbaev noted that the general election campaign is taking place within the legal framework and prosecutors did not record gross violations of election law.
In the future, mpz specialists intend to enter the foreign market with their products.
the meeting was held in Yerevan very recently.
therefore, in a short time it became antiques.
firstly, there will be no and no winners in any current war, everyone will lose there.
they implemented legislative work within the framework of the Plan of the Nation.
During the implementation of the decision on anti-crisis measures, the choice of Kazakhstanis once again proved the confidence of the population in the legislative and plenipotentiary authorities.
today there is a demand for an unrefined type of oil.
Special attention was also paid to the preparations for the meeting on June 23-24 this year in Tashkent, which will be attended by the heads of the councils of the Shu member states.
after a one-year internship, the judge passes a one-year probationary period.
there are enough world-class hotels and restaurants.
The second phase provides for a clear regulation of the status and working method of the antimonopoly authority and the work of the antimonopoly authority.
companies are engaged in the processing of chromium ore and chromium concentrate.
however, as the practice of previous elections shows, this is a simple practice.
Implementation of a system of situational tests to test skills and skills.
Relations with the African continent, Latin America and the Caribbean have also been systematically developed.
it is also planned to increase the efficiency of human resources management in the industry, ensure the introduction of public-private structures and modern information and communication technologies in the development of the industry.
first of all this formation of consolidation of cultural and political ethnic groups of the great steppe.
probationary period is not considered mandatory.
these changes in the law will allow cooperatives to earn money.	according to him , now the amendments to the law allow the cooperatives to make a profit .	0,54
to improve the quality of services and meet the needs of parents.	to improve the quality of services and the implementation of increasing parents ' requests a variety of innovative technologies to be implemented including the montessori method , trilingualism .	0,54
More information about this will become known in the near future, and for now tickets.expo2017astana.com - you can leave a request to the official website for the sale of tickets for the exhibition.	details will be announced soon , now you can request a purchase of the official website for the sale of tickets to the exhibition - tickets.expo2017astana.com.	0,54
During the congress, the election program was adopted and the list of candidates from the party for elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan was approved on March 20, 2016.	as a result of the congress the election program was approved , the party list of candidates was approved .	0,54
priority tasks for the Ministry to determine the implementation of a new model of public service in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the prevention of corruption.	the new ministry will be the authorized body in the sphere of public service and fighting corruption .	0,54
Since January 2012 - Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the 5th convocation, Deputy Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	in january 2012 he was elected as deputy of the majilis of the kazakh parliament of the 5th convocation .	0,54
The share of foreign investment continues to grow.	investors positively estimate the potential of the region .	0,54
The joint action plan covers the end of the year.	the new action plan - is a constant dialogue with the people .
the second direction, according to the acting head of the holding, is the training of managers, teachers, masters of industrial training for these colleges.
In addition, the company received a permit to work in the field of LED production and can issue visas for highly qualified foreign specialists.
the parties also exchanged views on the deterioration of Russian-Turkish relations.
If this work is completed at the proper level, then in 2016 the share of coverage of the region's population with blue fuel will reach 60.3%.
the activation of Kazakhstan affects the renewal of society in the parliament and maslikhats.
the meeting between Putin and Erdogan, which is currently taking place, could affect the situation in Syria and help reduce the loss of the Syrian population.
According to the director of the kindergarten, all groups have already fully accepted children.
at the expense of cheaper credit funds issued under the state program, the new workshop is equipped with modern technological equipment that meets all world quality standards.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan, opening a meeting with a Senegalese colleague, Arystanbek Mukhamediuly noted that Kazakhstan is particularly interested in the development of cooperation between the two countries in the field of sports.
Sports games competitions were played on the square.
3 . Standard of living estimated by national per capita income at purchasing power parity in terms of dollars.
In order to intensify bilateral cooperation, the Embassy of Kazakhstan was opened in 2014.
As Mihai Dobrovich noted, the value of peace and harmony is the basis for the creation of a multinational confessional society.
After considering the materials of the competition for the best goods of Kazakhstan and holding the final meeting, the commission under the presidential administration for awarding the titles of laureates and diplomas selects the winners of both competitions.
The conference was also attended by the leadership of the sea-Silesian region and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ambassadors of Armenia, Belarus, Russia, representatives of business circles of the EAEU countries and the Czech Republic.
In his speech, E. Idrissov noted that the head of state pays special attention to improving the investment climate in the modernization and industrialization of the domestic economy.
In the future, it is planned to open day, lime, weighty deposits, "said the deputy general director of the becbouse diamond.
To date, the plant produces more than 1,500 items of aluminum profiles.
The meeting of the round table was opened by the prosecutor of Zhambyl region ernat sybankulov.
Governor of Zhambyl region Karim Kokrekbayev addressed the audience.
the first companies began to create trading platforms.	they have already begun to arrange their offices .	0,54
secondly, we must stop uncompromising attacks on our country.	we will always take the strictest measures to suppress extremists and terrorists .	0,54
In addition, the exhibition featured high awards from foreign countries, such as the President of the World, "an interactive exhibition and book exhibition, independence and the first president."
In order to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank, an agreement was signed in Davos on January 21, 2016 between the Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank on the creation and functioning of Kazakhstan offices.
Note that so far in the Mangistau village of the Munailinsky district of the Mangistau region there were neither pharmacies nor pharmacies.
it is of interest to the international community in ensuring democratic elections as a component of respect for human rights and the development of the rule of law.
At the same time, the leader of the nation noted his work experience.
the president's message is a program of engagement.	it is a plan of preventive measures to ensure stability and development .	0,54
The meeting discussed the results of the party's participation in parliamentary elections, as well as the order of distribution of deputy mandates in the majilis of parliament according to party lists of candidates.	the participants of the session have discussed the results of nur otan party 's participation in the snap parliamentary elections held on march 20 and seat allocation at the majilis , the lower chamber of the kazakh parliament .	0,54
each participant had to make every effort and show the opportunity.	each participant had to prove his strength , speed , ingenuity , agility , sports passion , willingness to show mutual and command support .	0,54
Recall, on December 23, 2014, at a meeting of the EEC, an agreement was signed on uniform principles and rules for the correct use of medical devices, medical devices and medical equipment within the EAEU.	the agreement sets out the general requirements for the circulation of drugs on the territory of the eurasian economic union ,  vice-minister of the ministry of health and social development yelzhan birtanov has said at the meeting .
today, the combat training of female soldiers is assessed as positive.
In addition, environmental legislation defines norms for encouraging local executive bodies to reduce the volume of MSW.
class comfort of the residential complex in accordance with the housing parameter set by the KR - 4 (fourth) class and higher.
It should be noted that in our region most of women work in such social spheres as culture, education, health care.
suspension equipment for equipment is purchased not only from Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Canada, Germany and other countries.
The business forum will include a plenary session and industry meetings in 2b format.
Kazakhstan is already developing an innovative management system.
Abdikalikova also got acquainted with the work of students of Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Physics and Mathematics, exhibition of scientific and design works and social experience.
Are you participating in events chaired by an ethnocultural center?
You should not forget that our people with honor passed through the heaviest times of history thanks to this unity, unity and unity ".
the project was originally planned on the basis of consideration of various sources of financing, such as concession, investment, etc. of the government of Kazakhstan decided to change the sources of financing involving international financial institutions.
India signed an agreement with the organizers of expo 2017 on participation in the exhibition. india has signed an agreement to participate in expo 2017 .
we invite business associations to participate in the social issues of the city.	the construction of all objects is carried out in the framework of the ppp .	0,54
Russia in the morning is very responsible for participating in the world universiade.	it is a great opportunity to see the young athletes and begin to shape the future of the olympic reserve .	0,54
If you look at the general railway infrastructure of the region, then the electric locomotive plant is located in the center, where the washing and transportation points are stressed.
In this direction, the party asset has done a great job.
today the mountain is a world-class university of innovative entrepreneurship.
for the construction of the factory, the Urjar district was chosen, located near the large cities of the East Kazakhstan and Almaty regions.
cadets of the military institute of the Air Defense Forces took an active part in it.
Today, the number of manifestations of corruption in the armed forces is significantly reduced.
Cooperation between Almaty and tamos education is also growing.
also provides reduction of the main socially significant morbidity, equipment 80%.
assistance in finding an appropriate job from among the vacancies in the market is provided to a person who arrived in search of a job within 10 days.
three - deputies of the majilis of the parliament of the v convocation.
Over 25 years, reconstruction and modernization have taken place.
During the meeting with the guests, the head of the region expressed gratitude for his active participation in the creation of a rail and beam plant in Yamasaki, Yasukunidi Aktobe.
We are counting on a 50 percent localization of 25%, "said the Pupar Lafarge.
- Based on the election results, the observer mission will prepare a report.
At today's meeting, 10-graders from 50 metropolitan schools will demonstrate their ideas about what qualities are needed to become leaders.
the market size is $12 billion and 25 million.
with a large Chinese company, the construction of a plant for the processing of oilseeds began.
According to the employment roadmap, 4,385 people received microcredit over the past year, of which 4,114 opened their own business.	as the minister said , three targets of the regions development programs were achieved .	0,54
I thank the leadership of the region for organizing such a large-scale seminar-meeting.
In general, in the Mangistau region in 2015, the oil and gas production plan was implemented, 18.5 million tons of products were produced.
in the field of safety, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear research, energy efficiency applications through nanotechnology.
work experience will become the main condition for the career advancement of a public servant and will also be carried out here only on a competitive basis.
Within the framework of the new organization, Kazakhstan promotes grain and agricultural products, "new opportunities are opening up for Kazakh producers-exporters.
many global companies were successful during the crisis period of development.
At different times, when various trials and halls were recruited, they need figures, patriot deputies to confront them. there are many threats and challenges in the world today .
at the end of the tournament, everyone received awards and prizes.
Currently, 7 species have been mastered.
it is expected that all countries will propose their procurement measures and will necessarily monitor them throughout the year.
aa. The object noted whether we have attempts to strengthen trade and economic relations, there are efforts to promote business development, including in the field of agriculture.
Deputies of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of Parliament have done a lot for the development of our country.
At the meeting, the issue of giving instructions to the members of the committee on the formation of a common electricity market and the working group on the creation of an electronic electricity trading system from May 16 to 19, 2016 was resolved.
Acting Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ruslan Sultanov noted the important role of Spanish investments in the treasury, mainly in the commodity sector.
As part of the event, students attended a theatrical performance.
investment projects will also be attracted to the construction of service facilities along the Western Europe-Western China highway.
They have already exported products worth 1 trillion tenge.
ideas are very interesting and very useful for the economic development of each region.
work was carried out to replace former members of the commission.
:: Soboda reported on the tasks and functions of the CIS observer mission, shared his impressions of the preparation and holding of early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
During the event, which was attended by more than 100 American experts, representatives of academic and public circles, as well as students of Washington universities, Abdykalikova answered numerous questions regarding the efforts of the Government of Kazakhstan to empower women economically and politically.
He also spoke about changes in the system of remuneration for civil servants, about the new state program for the development of healthcare of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Health" for 2016-2019 and about social security.
taking advantage of today's situation, I want to congratulate our compatriots on the independence day of Kazakhstan!
The head of the region noted that work in this direction continues.
In his speech, Kulekeev announced the adoption of a new code of civil procedure, qualification requirements for applicants for the posts of judges.
there are no restrictions on the selection of observers.
In the remaining 330 facilities, ramps were built not according to standards, but in 1244 - generally absent.
Nazarbayev reminded us of our history and drew attention to our ancient history.
During the event, Vice President for Global Innovation Products for Central and Eastern European Countries, Head of Vaccination for Angelina Lukin and Kaukar, Israeli, Turkish and Balkan Regions exchanged views on partnership issues within the framework of the Health State Health Development Program for 2016-2019.
pooling opportunities will pay dividends to both companies.
everything is organized at a high level, "he said.
On the instructions of the Head of State, special attention is paid to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in connection with the increase in the level of employment of the population, the Governor of the region noted.
During the vote, amendments to this agreement were approved.
I was with you in April this year when we considered local projects during the echelon kz qualifier.	the initiator of the conference is the national welfare fund  samruk-kazyna . "
r.minnikhanov noted that our countries have a centuries-old historical connection.
In total, 108 athletes will take part in the competitions, "said the head of the garden department, the Sultan of Kuandyks.
The volume of gross domestic product of the region amounted to 109.6 billion tenge.
there was a need to find ways out of the current situation.	today we need to look for the ways out of the situation .	0,54
We provide money, loans to companies that are building.	we give them money , loans .	0,54
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, today there are no analogues of such equipment in the armed forces of the republic.	as the ministry of defense of kazakhstan reports , there are no analogues of such equipment .	0,54
due to its properties, it improves the design and quality of the treated steel.	due to its properties , it improves the structure and quality of the processed steel .	0,54
the patriotism of every citizen of the country is now criticized.	the president noted that today our society is ready to face new challenges .	0,54
all 9 registered candidates for deputies of the Majilis are included in the ballot paper.	in addition , there will also be a number of other expert surveys on various aspects of the elections .	0,54
Soon after, a special group led by the deputy akim of the South Kazakhstan region went to the North Kazakhstan region, where she got acquainted with the state of the labor market in 13 districts.	moreover , 50 families or 200 people have already resettled , and have been provided with work according to the program  employment road map - 2020 . "
I opened my business and called my company "basic furniture."
sports complex is intended for carrying out of sports educational and training competitions, preparation, recovery and general physical culture of athletes to game, combat and intellectual sports.
the chairman of the group is Labor.
In his message, the head of state outlined the important events held last year, summarizes them and identifies the tasks facing the country for the coming year.
the heads of supervisory authorities expressed a desire to strengthen cooperation in the fight against transnational organized crime and implement a coordinated policy, "the statement said.
- There is an increase in investment from abroad in the region.
Speaking about the peaceful initiatives of Kazakhstan, Brazilians appreciated the interethnic harmony and the strong maintenance of the country's independence.
We must carefully know these values ​ ​ that were achieved thanks to the hopeless policy of the head of state, and this is our main duty to take care of the future generation.
The volume of goods, works and services produced by SMEs increased by 100.3% to 498.8 billion. Tenge.
environmental coating is produced by a mini-plant in the oil region.
Recall that deputies of the lower house and maslikhats of all levels expressed their opinion on holding early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Representatives of more than 150 state bodies were invited to participate in the forum.
but the initiators themselves removed these issues from the agenda.
The additional audience includes girls aged 18 to 45 years.
In this section, we see that perspective largely remains an island of stability, "the deputy continued.
The main speakers of the forum will be Nobel Prize winners in economics, well-known entrepreneurs and leading experts.
It is important that the merger of these two companies will not lead to a reduction in the employees who currently work there.	it is important that the merger of two companies does not lead to a reduction of personnel working at the moment .	0,54
Jiangsu Province is one of the leading regions of China in the industrial and agrarian sphere.	note , jiangsu is one of the leading economic regions in china , with high industrial and agricultural development .	0,54
In the future, we plan to market the cities of Almaty and Kyzylorda region. this strategic document clearly stated all the main areas for further reforming of the state .
In just a quarter of a century, Kazakhstan was formed as a sovereign national economy that joined global economic ties, and a state that became a full-fledged member of the world family of nations.
For those wishing to improve professional skills, advanced training courses in accounting and taxes are opened, for training in these specialties there should be accounting, economic or financial knowledge.
Since October, events have been held around the world dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the UN and the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda.
we got acquainted with the article of the head of state "Plan of the nation - the way to the Kazakh dream."
among them will be a large number of youth.
the number of respondents supporting the fulfilment of parliamentary expectations is increasing.
6,1500 hectares of land newly included in agricultural turnover.
approved projects create industrial development points in various regions of Almaty.
Also, on the facts of violation of the conditions for the election campaign, 3 residents of the capital were given preliminary warnings about the inadmissibility of violation of the law, "he said.
the pair will support the growing role of Kazakhstan at the regional and global levels.
the text of the law is published in the press.
During the meeting, the main directions of the EBRD activities in Kazakhstan were considered, further promising plans were identified.
the meaning of this amendment - guarantees that insurers are not exempt from insurance payments if the insurance event occurred due to radiation or radioactive damage.
Recall that at first, in weight up to 77 kilograms, the Nizhatik Rakhimov lifted the blue flank from a height and held on to gold.
on the other hand, the graduates themselves do not think whether they will be able to find employment with this diploma in the future.
large investors are attracted to the region.
but there is no other reasonable alternative to this.
what keeps growth and competition going today?
unconditionally, the cooling of the crisis will affect the entire enterprise.	i would like to focus on the paragraph number 7 .	0,54
so, the model received apartments with an area of ​ ​ 44 square meters and standard parameters for the consumption of services.	as the speaker says , the basis for new utility tariffs is to ensure the interests of consumers .	0,54
Due to port modernization, Kazakhstan has the opportunity to expand trade turnover in all ports in the Caspian Sea.	aktau sea port is one of the branches of an integrated transport system in kazakhstan .	0,54
The main purpose of the training is to improve the professional skills and managerial competence of students necessary for appointment to senior positions.	the main purpose of the training is the improvement of skills and managerial competencies necessary for appointment to senior positions , general prosecutor 's office reported .	0,54
During the meeting, Zhumagaliyev reported to the Head of State on the implementation of these instructions, the implementation of the company's transformation program.	a. zhumagaliyev reported to the president on the implementation of previous instructions and realization of the program of the company 's transformation .	0,54
Speaking to the organizers, the Iranian ambassador noted that the celebration dedicated to the bright holiday has become a tradition in his youth.	iranian ambassador ahmad jalali stressed that the annual celebrations dedicated to this holiday has become a tradition .	0,54
in addition to flanking parks, shopping and ceremonial complexes are being built.	in addition , expanding cooperation of almaty with  tamos education " company .
In addition, the delegation will be located on the territory of the expo-2017 exhibition complex.
Traffic safety conditions for pedestrians.
The electronic health system is currently being designed.
In addition, the managing director of the milking bank advised to develop the regulatory and legal direction of akhko.
the advantage of this unique program over other programs: the depositor is given the right to choose an object and can vote in the "personal account" on the bank's website.
This year the forum will be held May 25-26.
it is also possible to solve the issue of building a brick factory.
Today, the public is widely discussing the excess of specialists with higher education and a small number of working specialists.
It is worth noting that currently Kazakhstani carriers are forced to use the Baku-rehabilitation ferry crossing as one of the alternative routes.
if Brazil introduces a free visa regime to Kazakhstan, investment ties between the two countries will also be opened.
the minister noted that in connection with the current situation in the world economy, a plan will be published that the government will adopt.
a separate explanation was given in connection with the land reform of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Governor of Pavlodar region noted that today the implementation of the industrialization map is an important factor in the development of the region.
Within the framework of this direction, negotiations were held between the plant management and the command of the naval forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the possible preparation of mines for previously testing and training personnel in the rules for the operation of sea mines.
In turn, members of the Supervisory Board noted that the Winter Universiade in Almaty has already reached record levels in the number of participating countries.
Over 4 years, we have done a lot of work to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Ecu. the attention to the organization for security and cooperation in europe has been decreased a little bit when kazakhstan completed its presidency , but in recent years due to the difficult events in our region , it has become clear that the osce plays an important role .
he noted the relevance of the topic discussed in improving the work of prosecutor's offices in the framework of combating terrorism and extremism.
I hope today we will have such an opportunity.
they are also given treatment benefits.
most of the industrial map enterprises operate stably.
The courtroom is equipped with audio and video recording of court cases and does not allow any termination or editing of recordings.
on the same day K. Massimov got acquainted with the activities of the Kazakh-Chinese logistics park.
32 non-residential facilities in the amount of 972.4 million tenge, 3 non-residential facilities in the amount of 8.3 million tenge, including 2 commercial facilities in the amount of 6.1 million tenge, 3 participation interests of legal entities in the amount of 3.7 million tenge, securities in the amount of 60.0 million tenge.
For the first time in Kazakhstan there are days of hermitage, the official opening day of which was held yesterday in the national museum of Kazakhstan.
Recall that last year we concluded such an agreement with Brazilian, Mexican and several other Latin American states, "he said.
in Kazan, the Consulate General of Kazakhstan operates.
many children intend to get their education in Europe, and today during the discussion we answered many questions on this topic, "he said.
The Government of Kazakhstan approved a new forecast of socio-economic development for 2016.	it is expected to be finished by the middle of this year .	0,54
According to the chairman of the central election commission, on January 20, the CEC approved the calendar indicator of the main measures.	the central election commission kuandyk turgankulov approved the calendar plan of main events .	0,54
its goal is to mobilize the medical society for physical education activities and to promote a healthy lifestyle among the population.	its aim is to make the medical community go in for sports and promote the active lifestyle among the population , the ministry of health and social development of kazakhstan reported .	0,54
A. Shokybayev expressed full support for this proposal of the Qatari Minister and proposed to begin the coordination of this draft document.	a. shokybaev expressed full support and proposed to begin coordination of the project of the document .	0,54
Currently, the holding of elections gives confidence to investors.	thirdly , the business enjoys peace and stability .	0,54
Sofya Chaimenovna is sure that she will definitely go to the exhibition.	i tell young people that kazakhstan can be proud of .	0,54
early elections open the way to the consolidation of society.
The joint venture is planned to be managed on a parity basis.
a tractor service center will be opened in the Zaisan district.
combining elections with maslikhats will save money and gain energy from the implementation of five institutional reforms. synchronization of snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels will allow to reduce funding and get the energy effect from realization of five institutional reforms .
all the transferred funds were transferred to finance the agro-industrial complex in tenge.
Following the results of the 15th permanent meeting chaired by Kazakhstan, the consideration at the 71st session of the UN General Assembly of a draft resolution on further support for the party was agreed.
According to experts, this water does not require special filtration.
According to him, every Kazakh youth should be aware of themselves nationalized and put before themselves a national honor.
in this regard, we think that the Government of Kazakhstan needs to immediately develop its own insurance strategy for each region.
It includes the main expert groups, long-term and short-term observers, "said T. Okhlopkova.
at a press conference, the speaker said that a new tourism development project is being implemented in Turkestan.
they prepared Kazakhstan cosmonautics as quickly as possible to launch.
27 refers to the interpretation of certain electoral legislation; 10 - provision of information on election commissions, candidates, etc.; 4 - proposals on the preparation and conduct of elections; 1 - granting equal access to persons with disabilities.
the councils should be headed by well-known public figures who are absent from the public service.
Poland has a successful experience in solving these problems.
candidates will represent themselves after election campaigning.
they will receive the concept from the National Human Resources Commission.
he also oversaw the office of the prosecutor's office of the kingdom, with the power to investigate criminal cases and maintain public prosecution.
Issues related to the conclusion of interstate treaties on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters were discussed during the meeting.
As M.Assemetov noted, today Kazakhstan auto industry enters the reselling market.
This is not the first time we have monitored the electoral campaign in Kazakhstan.
While working at school, school graduates and parents are interested in higher education.
Korean athletes received championship titles in the team sprint.
In 2016-2020, 30 projects will be launched, "said D. Akhmetov.
in general, about 21,000 apartments will be introduced through residential construction bank, "said Zhumagulov.
the decrease in production is due to the cessation of deliveries to China and the Russian Federation.
today the company produces men's and women's clothing (suits, claws, coats, all sizes of school uniforms, a wide range from 44 to 64.
n. According to al-Nazif, it is important to mobilize the intellectual potential of UNESCO to implement and establish such an academy.
Also, the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev signed an order "On convening an extraordinary twenty-third session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
We hope that green technologies will be introduced into our society faster, "he said.
accordingly, the implementation of the project to store Bozoi underground gas will increase gas supplies from the western regions of the republic to densely populated southeast regions and reduce their dependence on electricity, "the EBRD president said at a press briefing after the signing of the agreement.
The leaders of Kazakhstan and Russia exchanged views on the situation in Ukraine and expressed hope for an early resolution of the crisis only by peaceful means.
It is expected that 726 jobs will be created as a result.
This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence. in this anniversary year we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of independence of kazakhstan , which forms our consciousness , rallies , leading to new heights and victories .
the IMF Managing Director also thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for establishing cooperation with the fund.
because that country has come first in the world in recent years to deal with disputes out of court.
According to him, the concept should offer the state and participating countries access to foreign citizens, such as their citizens.
resocialization is a set of measures aimed at returning convicts to life in society.
According to the Vice Minister, the level of wool has decreased from 1.5% to 1.2%.
several thousand citizens are fighting in Syria on the side of science.
lack of funds will reduce the service life by 30%.	until the end of 2016 it is planned to complete 900 km .	0,55
three republican projects - in the road industry, electric power and civil aviation.	he also noted that the local investors are focusing more on social projects , and foreign investors are interested in large infrastructure projects .	0,55
Thanks to the investment climate, a rich raw material base and the location of our region in a strategically profitable geographical environment create conditions for the smooth movement of investment in the economy.
you had an even more difficult period in the formation of independence.
they are practical and rational and create conditions for foreign investors, "the head of state said.
All professions are good when you can reach the peak of skill.
When three factions of the Majilis expressed their proposals for holding early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels, deputies of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan supported this start.	according to him , the assembly of people of kazakhstan has supported the initiative of the deputies to hold snap election of the deputies in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels .	0,55
I liked his concept that you need to live honestly without deceiving anyone, and look for work where there is a vacancy.	i liked a requirement to live within means , to keep up with the times , to work where there are jobs .	0,55
finished aluminum products, railway engineering products, industrial and household chemicals manufactured in our region can become a new regional brand.	according to k. bozumbayev , the agency for investment attraction and the center of competence for eco-friendly technologies as well as a number of the other institutes established in the region will help to improve the developing relations between the partners .	0,55
At the same time, the chairman of the board noted that the price policy for purchasing oil volumes in the territory is determined in its own way. such a request concerning the tariff increase was sent to the russian mining companies , which are interested in this .
on the same day. At a meeting with Kazakh students studying in Malaysia, Zhoshybayev called for active participation in the promotion of the international exhibition abroad.
Specialists of about 100 industries in the composition pay great attention to solving social problems in settlements.
At the same time, the volume of gas exports increased - at the end of 2015, gas exports amounted to 12.7 billion cubic meters. m, which is 15% higher than in 2014 and 3.5 times higher than in 200 years, 3.4 billion cubic meters were exported over the years, "he said.
as you know, the regional plan includes seven main areas.
The Foreign Ministers noted the relevance of diversifying transport routes to stimulate the growth of bilateral trade, increase industrial and innovative cooperation, as well as expand trade and investment ties between the Kazakh and Chinese regions.
90% of workers are residents of local villages.
During the meeting, students got acquainted with the life and service path of the regional prosecutor.
As S. Sulangali noted, the elections are held in parallel with the 25th anniversary of the country's independence and are historical in nature.
Since the beginning of the year, 1069 people have been employed by the employment center of Astana Mayor's Office.
According to him, work is underway with the Ministry of Energy, issues of improving the competitiveness and re-qualification of oil services companies are envisaged due to the use of budgetary natural resources.
According to the chairman of the regional election commission, today measures are being taken to register and nominate candidates for deputies of the maslikhat.
today is a time of concrete and concrete affairs.
As part of the exhibition, a world-class aircraft "series - 400" for 19 seats, released by the air space company "Viking air ltd," will be shown.
the total construction area is 7 thousand square meters. meters.
during the exercises, I saw how professional Kazakh servicemen are in their work. at the exercises , i saw the professionalism of kazakhstani servicemen .
He noted that the 2017 Winter Universiade will allow young athletes to observe competitions and in the future help in the formation of the Olympic team.
athletes score cup points and are allowed to participate in the Olympic Games.
A small group of 50 brass band arrived at the festival.
the people of Kazakhstan made their choice.
we had strength.
in which the principles of international law should be reaffirmed in order to prevent wars and conflicts that could lead to destruction in the twenty-first century.
The head of the transparent Siberian-Kazakh cultural center of Omsk, Altyn Zhunusova, informed about the support of ethnocultural associations from the state.
As a result of geological exploration activities carried out in the future, reserves are expected to be produced, including copper - 3241 thousand tons, lead - 2200 thousand tons, gold - 44.7 tons, silver - 210 tons.
So, last year, representatives of the international technical committee (cti) paid a working visit.
the level of mutual trade fell slightly due to the current situation, but its actual total volume remained the same.
thus, in addition to young men, it is possible to get additional education in the nearest military specialty in the profile of an educational institution.
according to him, we are joining the world trade organization, so "there may be big risks for Kazakhstan's business, so we should be able to compete."
according to the results of the exit poll, by lot.
Managing Director for Asset Optimization is a strong Beisengali.
After the ceremony, the akim of the region examined the elevator of the region.
we must focus on fulfilling these tasks, "said Mayor Baurzhan Baibek.
The next step of the 97th step is the transfer of an traditimic competitive environment in legislative consolidation. the next step for the implementation of the 97th is a legislative consolidation of transmission algorithm of the functions in the competitive environment .
According to the head of state, early elections were held at the initiative of the parliament, taking into account the needs of all Kazakhstanis.
During the meeting, representatives of foreign student sports federations expressed their opinion on the Universiade in Alma-Ata.
the guarantee of legality depends on economic and rational classification.
physics teacher of the school-lyceum al-Farabi in Petropavlovsk sayash khairullin:
At this exhibition, representatives of the national company for large Russian tourist companies organize road shows for the presentation of expo 2017 tourist products.
Currently, we are launching a service for paying with corporate cards of the cargo transportation services bank.
The public council in the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan has been operating since 2007, "said M. Kogamov.
More work will be done in the field of agriculture.
the director of the bass role, the Togyzak erbolat personally presented the film to the audience.
Therefore, do not allow obstacles to entrepreneurs, "the head of the region instructed to help subordinate business entities.
About 20 investors will come to us.
A total of 20.4 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of the action plan from the state budget, including 17.5 billion tenge from the republican budget, 2.9 billion tenge from the local budget.
Otherwise, negative consequences for the economy are possible, "said the deputy.
in the framework of the round table of presentation and implementation of Astana business projects, the algorithm of work is the absence of a competitive process.
In total, 45 objects are subject to privatization according to the national property according to the sales schedule for 2014-2020.
This year, the plant will produce 19 freight electric locomotives.	11 optional electric locomotives are under negotiation .	0,55
What, in your opinion, should be done so that scientists form a unified opinion about them, about the Karachun holiday?	in your opinion , what efforts scientists ( historians , ethnologists , theologians ) could take to develop a correct idea of kara-chun ?	0,55
A large roof and a 50-meter table were arranged.	kazakhs is a nation of unity and consolidation .	0,55
We hope that this year the first launch will be created from the eastern cosmodrome.	this year , we hope the first launch will take place at the east cosmodrome .	0,55
one of the major contracts was the supply of conversion equipment to Myanmar.	an appropriate memorandum was signed on the second day of the exhibition .	0,55
during the meeting we conclude another 12 contracts.	we are preparing to sign at least another 12 contracts .	0,55
this is also facilitated by the current economic situation.	it is necessary to respond to the external challenges .	0,55
related issues e. Idrissov discussed with the executive director of the joint anti-terrorism committee jean-field a laboratory and the head of the task force for the implementation of joint anti-terrorism measures.	idrissov also discussed related issues in meetings with jean-paul laborde , executive director of the un counter-terrorism committee and jehangir khan , director of the un counter-terrorism implementation task force ( ctitf ) .	0,55
we meet this anniversary with unity, solidarity, "said the student.
of these, 3,757 stories are broadcast on republican television channels, 1,154 publications in republican periodicals, 3,924 materials in regional gardens, and 5063 materials on Internet resources.
The concept of further modernization of the pension system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030 provides for the annual indexation of the size of the solidarity pension payment by two percent ahead of inflation.
The decision of the head of state on the dissolution of the majilis of parliament at the fifth kilometer and the appointment of early elections of deputies of the Majilis is important for the speedy implementation of reforms and countering the crisis, "he said.
for the implementation of this project, a bank loan will be received from Sberbank of Russia.
from the moment of circulation, along with other money signs, it is a legal tender and is obliged to be accepted in all types of payments and money transfers, the national bank said.
To date, the CIS observer mission headquarters has received accreditation documents from 293 representatives of the CIS countries, of which 245 are accredited. to date 245 cis observers have been accredited by cec of kazakhstan .
As a value guide, a political doctrine was adopted, the general activities of the party were comprehensively revised.
Currently, a feasibility study is being developed for the construction of the route "capital-arch-turgai-irgiz-shalkar-kandyagash" on the way to the center-west car.
The Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship of the Mining University works closely with the Israeli Government.
At the same time, according to him, N. Nazarbayev is introducing sustainable development paths not only in the country, but also in all regions.
Speaking at the opening of the exhibition, the Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted that museums in thousands of regions of the country can visit the National Museum of the capital and organize a special exhibition.
The exhibition will last until November 15, 2016.
no matter what financial difficulties there are, our salary has always increased.
with a positive decision, the company plans to work on the complete refinement of products for further serial production of this type of products.
6 . Given that the international hawk monitoring system (the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization) recorded unusual seismic signs immediately after North Korea's nuclear tests on January 6, 2016, we note that the hawkish verification regime has shown its success and reaffirm our position of support for this important regime.
The participants of the meeting discussed the prospects for the further development of domestic science and the prospects for the further implementation of the scientific work of scientists.
During the event, the head of the regional education department noted that knowledge of three languages ​ ​ is an indicator of the achievements of mankind.
Special business support programs have been prepared.
in previous bills, which of the cooperatives invested a lot of money in the charter fund, the organization would vote more.
under the guidance of experienced officers and sergeants, he studied the initial basis of military affairs and looked forward to talking with his parents to be proud of his achievements.
today our National Institute of Energy Conservation works with the subjects of the register. at the end of 2014 the share of 61 major subject accounts for 86 % , that is , it is the largest 61st subject , which actually consumes more energy in kazakhstan .
this program significantly coincides with the program of the great silk road.	in addition , the vice minister stressed that kazakhstan implemented a large-scale infrastructure program  nurly zhol , " aimed at the formation and development of transport and logistics infrastructure .
all this is done for unity, friendship.	the german community exists since 1990s .	0,55
this will allow the company to increase competitiveness in the global uranium production market by reducing the cost of manufactured products and services.	reducing the cost of products and services allows kazatomprom to be competitive on the world uranium mining market .	0,55
the bike ride ended near the republican cycle track "Saryarka."
- Auletkaziev erbolat.
in fact, 86 objects were put up for sale, 63 objects were sold.
kiril ruder, maxim raids and sergey pomarev won bronze medals.
I really liked the infrastructure and the education system.
According to the minister, the main goal is to reduce the state's share in the economy.
In turn, the leadership of the Karlsruhe region expressed interest in establishing mutually beneficial relations with Kazakhstan.
According to him, on average, 12 helicopters are repaired annually at the plant.
From then to the present, production is being modernized.
souvenirs from different countries were sold at the fair.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
of these, 1,000 are vulnerable people who spend three seasons vacationing free of charge in the camp.
this will make it possible to enter a new wave of development of Kazakhstan. "
It is worth noting that today the armed forces of Kazakhstan and Pakistan interact in various directions.
history says that women have always called for peace and unity.
Reliable product information shall be provided to the consumer.
In addition, members of the commission intend to continue work on the improvement of the boarding school in the summer.
Take effective measures to address economic instability.
the competitive environment will expand and the quality of health services will be improved by increasing the share of the private sector in the provision of guaranteed health care.
I sincerely express my condolences to the families and relatives of the victims.
a. Nurberdyeva spoke about the Turkmen model of neutrality, based on love for peace, which does not interfere in the affairs of other states.
civil servants are employees of state institutions, they are not public servants and employees of state enterprises.
in my opinion, this is a timely, correct decision.
the cementing base of all this is the confidence of the people in the people.
The erbolat of the Toguzakov, who played a major role in the premiere of the film by Shala, was warmly welcomed by Austrian political and public members and members of the business community.
this is another important component necessary for the production of glass.
we try to give preference to our products.
I am glad that the tradition of gathering so many people and presenting the same picture is gaining momentum in our country.	one of the authors - shahmardan aidos - expressed gratitude for the support of the national museum and talked about the features of this work .	0,55
Recall that Singapore is one of the founders of the Association of Southeast Asian Countries and plans to create a comprehensive understanding with them.	in the field of agro-industrial complex it is supposed to ensure food security and create conditions for improving the competitiveness of agribusiness entities .	0,55
now more than 1800 people work here.	in addition the region has all conditions for investment .	0,55
the company produces lamps with a long service life, allowing to save electricity 3 times.	the project cost is 30.8 million tenge , capacity - 4 million pieces per year .	0,55
The business forum was attended by representatives of more than 40 large enterprises of Kazakhstan and 150 major Iranian corporations.	we will note that it is the first contract between two countries after removal of sanctions from the islamic republic of iran within business visit of kazakhstan 's delegation to tehran .	0,55
he urged them to build together the future of their country so that they would not show attitude towards this.	any leader should be supported by the parliament , which is a pillar of the state .	0,55
The existing legislative framework of the postal industry needs to be modernized as the information society develops.
The main goal of the competition was to award the best entrepreneurs of the Mangistau region.
Participants in the presentation expressed the hope that the book will find its reader.
0.25 per cent of the lump sum loan payable.
At the same time, today the course of chromium ore has grown, "the founder of the Lightning Group shared good news.
the main feature of the pharmacy robot is the quick performance of maintenance work, error-free loading; saving the territory of the pharmacy, accounting for goods and material values ​ ​ for 5 minutes.
After the full implementation of the project, the road capacity will increase by 1.5 times and will have a great impact on saving time on the road.
Currently, there are 3,886 participants in the war and disabled war, 22,867 citizens equated with participants in the war.	currently 3668 participants and invalids of the great patriotic war , as well as 22,867 persons equated to the participants of the war live in the country .	0,55
By decree of the head of state of January 20, it was decided to hold early elections to the Majilis of the parliament and the next maslikhat on March 20 of this year.	on january 20 , the head of state signed the corresponding decree .	0,55
The initiative of the national holding inspired 113 small and medium-sized farms, which at the beginning of 2015 merged in the framework of three regional cooperatives before the sowing campaign.	on 2 december 2015  national holding " kazagro " jsc held a final meeting with agricultural producers in akkol city of akmola region .
During the negotiations, sadr sake invest expressed interest in buying a stake in Zerde Ceramics.
In addition, as part of the industrialization map of the forced industrial and innovative development program, 5 projects worth more than 14 billion tenge are planned to be implemented in the ancient city and 244 new jobs created.
summing up the meeting, the Secretary of State noted the need for timely anti-corruption monitoring in accordance with the newly adopted law "On combating corruption."
signed a memorandum on cooperation in the field of mediation.
agriculture, construction, architecture, oil production, energy, aviation, military technology and transport.
high training of election commission members and election commission members. the level of staff training improved .
so that the children do not forget to write their address.
N.Nazarbayev said that holding parliamentary elections after the priority presidential elections is a very reasonable, rational step.
The first article of the concept shows that there is no discrimination in the country.
Another mechanism for attracting investment is industrial zones.
The measures implemented within the framework of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," 81 steps are aimed at the development of private medicine.
Note that European participants will receive a number of benefits and privileges.
worked with friends, advertised a newspaper so that the country knew about us.
According to him, in this aspect it is necessary to make changes and additions to the state standard of higher and postgraduate education.
We're thinking of doing this in France.
The restrictions imposed by OPEC, in my opinion, were replaced by the production of shale.
in each medical station, depending on the time of the exhibition, one doctor and one nurse work in three shifts.
It is planned that the facility will be commissioned in 2017.	today already assembled frame of the building .	0,55
The public institute will become an effective tool for increasing the level of confidence of citizens in the law enforcement system and solving pressing issues of concern to society.	public institute aims to become an effective tool for enhancing public confidence in the judicial system , the solution of topical issues of concern to society .	0,55
We provide all necessary support from all sides, even from agricultural construction: we help with infrastructure, provide tax benefits.
results of the individual adaptation plan.
any country can show its first art and boast to others.
One of the drivers of success is the introduction of mass online learning in universities, which are gradually being implemented in universities.
The new system will be optimized to enhance health-care capacity, for example, in outpatient settings and to improve preventive care.
from the moment of its opening until the determination of the voting results, international and Kazakhstani observers, representatives of the media, as well as proxies of candidates for deputies of the Majilis elected by the assembly, are entitled to participate in the voting point, "he said.
in general, all the measures that we are promoting in the message are concrete in nature and, as a rule, are provided with reliable funding.
a. According to Alshimbayev, the purpose of the memorandum is cooperation in the framework of the integration of thermal insulation chambers developed and manufactured by Kae LLP into the "bearing" aiming complexes.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that Thailand is an important partner of Kazakhstan in southeast Asia.
By 2022, fare fees will amount to about 41 billion tenge, which will ensure the maintenance of the entire system of roads of republican importance.
more than 450 artists and creative groups will take part in the festive concert.
it is noted that the elections are indeed held with an increased festive mood.
increase of export volumes will allow to increase production volumes of the plant.
At the same time, it can be noted that in Kazakhstan about 180 thousand German citizens live together in peace and harmony.
Agenda 8 of the plenary session includes 8 issues.
and the domestic athlete, sprint olga shishigina said that in the dress for athletes, the shoes were replaced with moccasins.
Prevention of violence against women and children is increasing.
The article of the head of state is a constructively clearly approved document.
At a meeting of the Senate of parliament of RK the decision to make proposals is made.
civil servants cannot use a tablet and smartphone while working.
The Minister noted that during the election campaign, political parties presented proposals for the further development of the country to Kazakh society.
Kyzylorda residents who got acquainted with the potential of our region should also sell products manufactured from aktobe.
also holds early elections.
As you know, the Republic of Kazakhstan this year completed negotiations on joining the World Trade Organization and became a full member.
special attention was paid to the current situation in Nagorno-Karabakh.
the design of banknotes is made in a single style with reverse currency signs: the prevailing images of the front side are located vertically, and on the back side - horizontally.
now this project will take place not every year, but every two years.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that more than half of the country's foreign trade turnover is accounted for by the European Union.
60 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of one kindergarten.
museum staff presented the results of the re-exposition of the meeting room and the lobby of the domed hall.
The issue of strengthening cooperation between certain military areas of the States members of the treaty was also raised.
The main activity of the plant is the enrichment and processing of gold-bearing ores with the production of 75% gold signal concentrate.
this is a large part of the implementation of democratic principles.
As N. Nazarbayev said, "Authorized renewal is the interest of the people and the country.
aa. As noted by the Denst Garcia, the population considers the intervention of citizens in global economic situations legal.
Kazakhstan is one of the most important trading partners of Uzbekistan.	thailand backs development of confidence-building measures in asia .	0,55
The Ukrainian observer noted a number of inconsistencies.	however , the observer from the ukraine has noted minor discrepancies .	0,55
very rational measures were being taken in that direction.	the hard work to get rid of imports dependence was carried out .	0,55
During the meeting, the current message of the head of state was widely discussed, joint actions were agreed to fulfill current party obligations.	it should be noted that the first stage of the competition was attended by over five thousand ppos , in the second stage 478 ppos were selected , of which 45 participated in the national stage .	0,55
The head of the Department of Altasitics Ishtivan Zimoni noted that the university attaches great importance to the Kazakh language, Turkology was first introduced as a European discipline in adventure.	the university of szeged is one of the few institutions of higher education in central and eastern europe , where kazakh language and literature is taught officialy ( since 1998 ) .	0,55
A diploma of the III level was received by a daryn "student of the 11th grade of the adin saurykov school and a student of the 11th grade of the mustakhan erkanat.
The main partners of the project are the Ministry of Education and Science and the Supreme Court.
232 families will be accommodated in this housing.
O.Suleimen drew attention to the need to mobilize the efforts of not only states, but also public organizations and civil initiatives in the global anti-nuclear movement.
youth and older persons alike.
in the current crisis, it was important to mobilize efforts to expand the association in all directions.
Switzerland is one of the States actively using alternative sources of energy.
these are economic integration, financial markets, transport, infrastructure, customs regulation and much more.
there is a great unifying force in the word of the country, since the land of birth at all times was and remains the closest and most attractive value for Kazakhstanis.
4 citizens were awarded letters of thanks from the Governor of North Kazakhstan region.
firstly, a small working office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 2nd reception room were offered for a wide range of visitors, the conditions and furniture in their original form were completely restored.
Including 10 appeals on clarifying certain norms of electoral legislation, another 9 relate to election procedures in connection with the nomination of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of parliament included in party lists, etc.
The parties expressed a common opinion on strengthening cooperation and improving the high level of mutual trust thanks to the leaders of the two countries.
The meeting of the Council of Rectors of Higher Educational Institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held by the Chairman of the Council - Rector of the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
The role of kha and international relations is the most pressing issue.
the introduction of a modern model of pre-trial investigation, improving the quality of criminal prosecution, strengthening the role of the prosecutor's office and the court in criminal proceedings.
I. Rogov noted that holding early elections to the Majilis simultaneously with the upcoming elections to maslikhats of all levels fully complies with the norms of the Constitution.
this concept is the document of the fourth reform.
That year, which was devoted to history, became fruitful for our country.
the law provides for a number of new rules for the employment of citizens.
It will be about 4.8 billion tenge, "- said K. Turgankulov.
In addition, Akmola region is doing a lot of work to increase the number of small and medium-sized businesses.
the jury also considered and evaluated the portfolio of participants and essays on the topic "I am a modern teacher."
Increase its financial capital annually.
Proposals voiced during the meeting were made to it.
civil alliance of East Kazakhstan region is the official representative of the civil alliance of Kazakhstan.
Together with the population of the country, the inhabitants of the southern region are actively participating in the formation of a special model of unity and peace, solidarity and tranquillity.
In addition, additional boxes will be created for the mass admission of people to the hospital in the city infectious disease hospital.
my contribution to the future is to preserve the unity and unity of the people.
Maintaining and improving safety.
In total, voting is carried out at 9840 polling stations.
In total, about 20 events will be organized within the framework of the forum.
According to him, this request is aimed at tariff expansion for Russian companies and so far there is no answer.
On the site kdb www.kdb.kz you can get acquainted with the full list of car models.
During the meeting, representatives of Akmola region held a bilateral visiting operator meeting between Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
The main document of the movement was the Russell-Einshein manifesto, the name of which was established in 1957 in connection with the venue of the first conference in the Canadian city of Paguch.
now the data of the persons included in the party list are being checked, which are being checked in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a system of public expenditure and subsidies.
"He said, noting that at the opening of polling stations, the performance of the anthem of the Republic of Kazakhstan and, accordingly, listening to voter signatures on the chest was a wonderful sight.
the implementation of funds under these programs amounted to 100%, work on their implementation will continue.
now the whole world is absorbing organic products.
we must do everything possible to rid humanity of the threat of war.
In addition, during the EEC board, it was decided to extend the zero duty of import customs for gas turbines with a capacity of 50,000 kW to 5,000 kW by the end of 2021.
in second place is the North Kazakhstan State University named after Manash Kozybayev.
mechanisms for the selection of candidates for the post of judge and qualification requirements have been tightened.
thirdly, remove restrictions on leased land.
Marcel is the only soul that causes all his inner feelings.	galina cheplakova delivers bright soprano of feminine musetta .	0,56
in the region, special attention is paid to the processing of agricultural products.	particular attention is paid to the processing of agricultural products .	0,56
in addition, a food caravan will run in the districts.	also on this day three regional districts will meet food caravan .	0,56
kindergarten No. 8 duman, "Kazakh University of Humanities and Law).
fisu representatives watched the preparation of sports facilities in Almaty for the winter universiade games.
When signing the documents, the parties unanimously agreed that cultural ties are an important area of close mutual understanding and cultural exchange between our states.
The meeting, held in Kostanay, in addition to other farms and agricultural organizations, was attended by representatives of the akim of the region, the district administration, regional branches of the subsidiary "Kazagro," Kazakhstan Soviet farmers, credit associations, second-level banks.
for example, last year there was integration between eeo and jab projects, which made it possible to create a discussion on the part of experts.
this initiative of majilismen was widely supported among citizens of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the Presidential Council of Foreign Investors was established in 1998 as an advisory body.
confirmation of this is the recent visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to Brussels, "the report said.
It is worth noting that last year Akimat of Akmola region signed a bilateral memorandum with the Israeli construction company in Kokshetau.
railway lines "good - noise" and ferry crossings in the port of the trigger.
at a meeting of the public council, Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov emphasized that the head of state emphasized the creation of an effective public council and increasing its role in countering negative actions in the activities of the government.
The main task of the National Plan of the Russian political scientist is to give a stable life to the independent Kazakh people.
Monthly monitoring and information collection on a district-region-centre basis.
this is necessary, especially in the difficult conditions of the modern world.
the presidential administration is responsible for monitoring the execution of these instructions.
It should be noted that South Korean specialists conduct control from the very beginning of the construction of the complex to the collection of first products.
Women have been my most reliable support in all years of independence.
the best product of production purpose: Bemer Reinforcement LLP (andreas kefer), Glass-service LLP (arcade of scars), Brissol LLP (Sergey bok)
in no country did bankruptcy lead to a fall in the economy.
the bill will be considered at a plenary session of the upper house.
this evening was crowned with works by Kazakh composers and authors.
It is planned that the production will have such potential as to process up to 40 thousand tons of raw materials per day and produce 9,500 m3 of biogas per day.
the Government is aware of this and supported by the State.
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan took the initiative on the dissolution and early elections of deputies of the parliament of 5 convocations and maslikhats of all levels.
2017 is the year of implementation of the new project "Free vocational education for all."
The Kazakh delegate visited the Amata Nakorn Industrial Park under the chairmanship of Baurzhan Baibek as part of the execution of the Head of State's instruction to develop an innovative cluster.
in relation to fish products, we have a need for imports.
From September of this year, first-graders will study only 5 days a week.
she will study until September of this year.
Forum delegates laid flowers at the monuments of the Soviet army in Sofia and launched balls into the sky.
We are talking about the similarity of the measures of the commission with the interests of business.
condensate (water) is returned to production, and salts obtained on this basis are disposed of on roads as a means of protection against icing.
taking the chairmanship, the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the Vienna International Organization on behalf of Kazakhstan spoke about Kazakhstan's plans and priorities in this position.
your home place has made all the conditions for you, supported your business, contributed to its wealth.
Since this year, in connection with the introduction of this law, specialists of the Kazakh Research Institute for the Economics of the Agro-Industrial Complex and the Development of Rural Territories have been specially visiting and conducting educational work in all regions.
Passed about 80 bills.
universities should commercialize their activities as much as possible and simplify the burden on the state budget.
In this regard, I say that 20 years of the formation of the assembly is 20 years of calm, 20 years of friendship and stability.	my order to future generations - preserve the unity and cohesion of our people .	0,56
It is worth noting that to implement this task, a plan of specific cases for each of them has been developed, divided into 7 five-year plans.	the moment is not just in terms of the public administration , but in general , in the internal dynamics .	0,56
As part of a significant date, more than 2,500 events were held in the region.	in honor of this significant date the aral sea region has held over 2 500 events .	0,56
The ski base will be interesting to professional athletes and the population.	ski center will provide facilities for professional athletes and beginners .	0,56
the electoral process was peaceful and calm.	the course of the election was successful and peaceful , there were no violations during the elections .	0,56
Recall that today the deputies of the lower house of parliament appealed to N. Nazarbayev with a request to hold early elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats.	now we need to bring these reforms in place , work with them , so the new majilis will focus on implementation of these reforms during its five-year term ,  zh.dzhunussova has said .
the Secretary of State called for initiatives in the Abu Dhabi manifesto.
Almaty Rakhymbay Daniyar, who was ahead of everyone who was criticized, received the main prize, stopping in first place, became attached to the Makpala and Dzhambul Sulujan Abenovs.
they are doing their job successfully.
on the production line.
I was told that all polling stations are fully ready for the upcoming election campaign.
Together with the efforts of the national commission and the competent authorities of the republic, an active field of business with the participation of women has appeared in the country.
$88 million from the World Bank will be allocated for the project and the project will be implemented within 5 years.	the project will be implemented within five years .	0,56
Procedure for legalization of property located abroad.	the same goes for legalization of property abroad .	0,56
we hope that the campaigning work of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of Parliament from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be held in accordance with the electoral legislation and all candidates will adhere to the established rules, "said T. Okhlopkova.
For many years, budget funds were not enough for the construction of this facility.
a joint commission on the quality of medical services will be created.
In this regard, an initiative is being put forward to hold meetings and elections of maslikhats at all levels to implement measures to overcome the new economic situation and the world crisis.
today the company got the opportunity to launch a new production as part of state support.
Given our rich experience and high level of agricultural development in Israel, I want to say that we are ready to cooperate with your state in the field of agriculture.
In 2015, 10 health facilities were commissioned.
perhaps they like it, but our goal is to attract them to productive employment, to clarify the need for pension contributions in order to achieve a prosperous future.
In addition, Laurent briel noted that several good meetings were held with the accreditation department of the Winter Universiade.
Special Major General of the Police Petrel Igor Vladimirovich;
the second part of this context provides for the rule of law.
modern artists have developed their own features and schools.
Within the framework of the National Plan, the head of state pays great attention to the fight against corruption, therefore, the exchange of experience will be important for us.
During the briefing with members of the public commission, the members of the commission will monitor the observance of transparency and transparency of the election campaign.
As Ibragimova noted, another popular tool for supporting entrepreneurship of the Development Fund under a single program is to guarantee entrepreneurs who do not have sufficient guarantees to receive loans from banks.
"nұr otan," "white road" and "Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan" received a 7-point threshold.
The main instrument of customs and tariff regulation is the establishment of import and export rates of customs duties.
Galina Martynkevich, Deputy Director of the Production Policy Department of the Republic of Kazakhstan, noted that the transition to production cooperation as the main direction of non-ferrous metallurgy in the union will become a unique vector of economic cooperation.
information signs are installed to warn drivers.
online you can see information about the commodity fund, warehouse, state of transport, information about the supply of drugs and medical products, about their balances among medical organizations.
the mill manufacturers successfully presented their products to the heads of retail chains and plan to conclude contracts with them in the future.
this system provides optimal production process, tracks cost-effective losses of reagents, reduces equipment downtime, helps to quickly detect abnormal situations.
kazpost received the status of "partner of the exhibition," which includes all relevant sponsorship privileges.
We also addressed the crisis of 2009-2011.
there will be a very large competition for them to come to us.
also, according to him, it is planned to invest in the chemical and mining industries.
Governor of Karaganda region visited Korkut Ata memorial complex in Karmaksha district and cosmonaut museum in Baikonur.
We cannot survive such a world crisis unless we keep the country calm.
The parties noted the efforts of state bodies, including the prosecutor's office, to ensure transparency of the elections.
As indicated in the important document, it will set the goal of ensuring transparency in business development, improving procurement efficiency in the quasi-public sector.
Also, according to the Secretary, the CEC of Kazakhstan approved the text of the ballot paper for the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament, elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
open halls can be seen for free by anyone.
The same library was created under the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I think that the dissolution of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan is the right decision that was made during the global crisis. i think that the dissolution of the majilis - the right solution .
as a result of low demand, the number of sheep decreased by 11%.
At the end of the meeting, a protocol was signed between the Ministries of Agriculture of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the control of locusts and other agricultural pests.
It should be understood here that the idea of ​ ​ social justice should not be a social injustice for Kazakhstanis at work, "said N. Nazarbayev.
of which 3 WWII veterans and 1,431 left without parental care, 7.6 thousand people from low-income families and 21 families living in emergency houses are waiting for a queue.
land plots are provided to individuals and legal entities of the Republic of Kazakhstan by auction on the right of private ownership by agricultural land plots in the following order:
I want to celebrate your work here. i am very happy to be here .
The event will be attended by leading domestic and foreign experts, as well as representatives of the leadership of state bodies.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies, deputies of maslikhats, public figures, descendants of prisoners of Algeria, as well as residents of the capital.
the company produces diesel fuel, various chemical products.
the development of the state requires the transfer of a number of state functions to a competitive environment, and today there are about 4.5 thousand of them in total.
At the meeting on additional measures for the development of collective security of UN member states in the field of combating terrorism, Secretary General of the organization Nikolai Bordyuzha will speak, according to the organization's official website.
this year we have a big holiday - the 25th anniversary of the formation of the CIS, as well as the jubilees of the independence of the EAEU member states, Russia Day.
The Ambassador of Lithuania praised the Nұrly Zhol program.
Today, 211 families have moved to houses, 72 families are settled in a residential complex commissioned "along the Sarybulak River south of Tlendiev Avenue," located at the address: Astana, p. 409, houses 43, 45, 47.
As the head of state noted, today the state pays special attention to them, given the importance of the tasks assigned to special forces.
the council included prominent public figures and reputable specialists, whose experience, professionalism and active civic position contribute to the fruitful solution of the responsible tasks facing the council.	prominent public figures and authoritative experts with experience and active citizenship are included in the composition .	0,56
participants visited laboratories of research institutes of rehabilitation and rehabilitation.	the participants visited the laboratories of the research institutes in atyrau and aktau .	0,56
The Head of State pays special attention to the development of Almaty.
each of us can write on this site a story of our good deed, "said Z. Nurlanov.
But the deadlines for preparing for court proceedings have been extended, "said the Federal Assembly.
The Chinese side, which has so much experience, invited the heads of Almaty akimat to strengthen cooperation in terms of implementing innovative projects.
As noted e. Sultanov, today it is planned to implement 60 projects worth 138 billion tenge.
the book is dedicated to the 180th anniversary of the outstanding Kazakh scientist and the 170th anniversary of the Russian geographical society.
the party creates methodological conditions for its structures, especially in the regions.	the winner of the competition is  dunie " ppo of yessil district branch of " nur otan " party for " national agency for development of local content " nadloc . "
In turn, an honorary professor at the Oldenburg University of Applied Sciences, a member of the German Institute of Engineers, noted the high level of organization of the forum.
today it is the only center that allows not only to realize opportunities in the interests of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, but also to reach the regional level.
Following the meeting, the participants of the event decided to hold a similar seminar in election commissions at all levels.
half of them need reconstruction.
to date, there is reason to believe that it is one of the advanced sources of evidence information in central Asia and, possibly, around the world, "said Duncan Enright.
we have begun to implement the plan of the nation, which I announced this spring. we have started the national plan , it is symbolic that we start implementing on the eve of the 25th anniversary of independence .
At the same time, he noted that the work on the implementation of mja projects will be entrusted to the companies that won during the open competition.
members of the Central Election Commission spoke about the work done on supervised issues and areas.
creamery is located in the village of Birlik Shu district.
among the post-Soviet republics, the more developed small financial sector of Kyrgyzstan.
this is your task, "concluded the archimedes of the muhambets.
Therefore, there is an opportunity to tell the people about who they want to see in the places of power, "the deputy said.
heads of departments will summarize the work done last year and share plans for the current year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev wished A. der bellen good health, success in responsible activities, as well as well-being of friendly Austrian people.
in zhanaosen, 7,300 children stand in line for kindergarten.	two new kindergartens are set to be commissioned by yearend .	0,56
I was three times before.	until then , i have already been here three times .	0,56
As the head of state noted in his message, during the current crisis we must jointly use any measures to curb corruption.
The facility will contribute to the creation of more than 6 thousand new jobs, "he said.
holders of second-level diplomas - a student of the 11th grade of the Daryn boarding school and a student of the 9th grade - Kainazarova.
this will allow the production of more than 110 types of meat products.
The seminar discussed the implementation of 17 sustainable development goals adopted at the UN in September 2015 and proposed for implementation in 2016-2030, as well as the active participation of parliaments in its decision.
On December 1, his concert dedicated to the Day of the First President together with his talented mentors took place in Ankara.
Speaking to the participants of the meeting, the head of state thanked the foundation for organizing this dialogue and noted that this institution has been making a significant contribution to the development of international relations for more than a century.
Large multinational companies show interest in the exhibition.
the program is effectively implemented through residential construction bank: the number of investors increased from 17 to 45 thousand.
As aibeybeisenbaev noted, he won a gold medal.
we don't have that.
paper packaging materials are made from this.
Obviously, the digital technologies of Kazakhstan catch up with the market of developed countries of the world with their shortcomings.
teaching the Kazakh language was a priority and will be so.
it should include all State-owned organizations.
a business plan for the project was also developed there.
thirdly, order and consent in public and political life.
they are headed by 13 women's and gender non-governmental organizations, 39 ethnocultural associations.
True, there are delays in the big business, but 95% of newly built enterprises work.	according to him , within the running productions more than 3 thousand new permanent jobs with high productivity were created .	0,56
the implementation of this program is a direct indicator of the high level of the educational process at the academy, recognized by leading universities in France. realization of this project is a direct indicator of the high level of educational process at the academy , recognized by leading universities of france , " the message reads .
Palestine and Côte d'Ivoire were elected Vice-Chairmen.
rehabilitation of border roads.
This is a great opportunity for students to see and study the experience of domestic companies within the university, "he said.
As a result, we assume that value-added products will be produced in large volumes, "said Noboyuki Arakawa.
- The parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, created at the suggestion of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, is one of the mechanisms for strengthening this traditional friendship.
where Tselinhydromash, 2day telecom of Peak Yutaria Ltd LLP, Monolith LLP, Laughing Capital LLP, rixos president astana hotel, tsesnabank of Ak LLP, Yabloko TV, Astana-Zelenstroy, White Guard Specialized Services, "Specialized Management Management of the City" Z" ZerelenstVelenstrostrostroy-zestroy, "
today, all countries of the world face economic problems.
The 10th lead mining in the world is carried out according to our practice.
the joint work of the Majilis of Parliament and the Maslikhat deputies on the implementation of the election platform has proved its effectiveness.
efficient use of raw materials, development of new products, improvement of energy efficiency and environmental production, production of technological products - in this regard, the successful development of industries can become the key.
Taking into account the interest-free growth and threats of terrorism, as well as taking into account the initiative of the head of State to unite the efforts of the world community to combat terrorism, the participants were invited to adopt the topic of security.
implementation of projects will open new points in industrial zones of Almaty.	4,500 people are planned to be employed ,  the press-release reads .
production and production of military equipment.
this is one of the measures of social support for the poorly protected population.
In turn, he thanked the akim and noted that the state of Israel is ready to cooperate with Kazakhstan in various areas.
Hundreds of talented students from all metropolitan educational institutions took part in it.
In addition, the meeting raised the issue of solving the shortage of irrigated land through the reconstruction of water utilities.
our company will create more than 38 thousand different furniture, of which more than 40 flowers and 5 thousand finished projects.
144 regional winning enterprises take part in the competition.
As the CHA member noted, if there are elections, the people will again show their unity and unity.
Recall that in the period from March 29 to March 31, 2016 in Kabul there was a Kazakhstani delegation consisting of producers of bank industries and the production of food and petroleum products.
the main weight went to pediatricians.
We must confirm that a lot of work is being done in this area, but we need to work even harder.
images and inscriptions on the front and back sides of coins are embossed.
The head of state examined the trading halls of the hypermarket, where he got acquainted with the supplied domestic goods, including those produced on the territory of the retail enterprise.
the parties also noted the great potential for expanding mutually beneficial cooperation and expressed interest in further strengthening business relations.
The memorandum of understanding should be a permanent form of cooperation between the Commission and Singapore.
The bill was considered taking into account the main goals.	all majilis committees submitted a positive opinion on the bill .	0,56
The percentage of meeting the goals and targets of the strategic plan for 2015 in 2015 was 90.8%.	b. imashev noted that all the established goals and objectives for 2015 were reached .	0,56
Tigran Sargsyan noted the relationship of the commission with foreign partners and entrepreneurial organizations in various fields.	tigran sargsyan emphasized that the eec is open for cooperation with foreign partners and business associations , in different formats and on a wide range of issues .	0,56
these measures should result in increased competitiveness of domestic banks.
Starting in May of this year, for all citizens, sand will work by link to www.knf.kz in the state and Russian languages, "he said.
As part of the modernization, the plant plans to produce multifunctional vessels, floating laboratories, tractors, as well as in the future the development of shift delivery vessels, search and rescue and firefighters, as well as other auxiliary vessels of the technical fleet.
this meeting "laid the legislative foundation for the implementation of the plan of the nation and fulfilled its historical mission.
The management of the enterprise fulfills all the obligations undertaken within the framework of the memorandum with the Governor's Office of the region and the council of enterprises of the region.
this leads to obstacles during work, the former composition should begin work and continue work in the new composition.
the parties also discussed the measures being taken to resolve the conflict.
now we export it ourselves.
the bill provides for amendments and additions to five legislative acts aimed at the legal provision of the provisions of the bill "On precious metals and precious stones."
the director of the enterprise has experience in the field of agriculture.
upgraded station sites and passenger waiting platform.
the organizer of the doda is a famous French racing driver-schlesser.
Legal, audit, accounting and consulting companies will be involved to serve the participants of the Capital International Financial Center, "said K. Elimbetov.
also facilitates the reception as well as transit of persons illegally present in the territory of the country, in accordance with international law.
this is the correct answer to what is happening in the world today, in general, in the global economy.
all this is done by removing trading dams, creating free movement of goods and a single market service.
M.Pischbayev also invited Czech engineering concerns to take part in the forum of machine builders of Kazakhstan, which will be held in the capital on September 16, 2016.
entrepreneurs of the two regions got the opportunity to directly discuss the supply of products of their own production on mutually beneficial terms.
Deputies of the Majilis of the 5th convocation fully fulfilled the duties assigned to them.
visiting a number of sites during the trip and "youth! inspiration! labor! " ".
the new holiday was approved by decree of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Majilis of the parliament fulfilled its experimental mission as a legislative and legislative body.
Thus, by 2030, the share of middle-level specialists will increase in the overall structure of employment in the economy, and the share of low-skilled workers will decrease.
In addition, the region has a special economic zone "Pavlodar," which provides tax benefits for investors.
the agreement regulates the provision of legal assistance in criminal cases and provides for a complete set of procedural actions necessary to prove the guilt of the person who committed the crime, as well as the confiscation of property and proceeds of crime.
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held.
Recall that in order to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
we are interested in training Kazakhstani specialists.	also we address the issue of simplification of visa regime for business contacts and the opening and continuing of operation of the direct flight astana - paris and almaty - south of france ,  f. etienne said .
recently I managed to go to Minsk.
In general, Kazakhstan is now exporting complex military equipment to the Russian, European and Arab markets.
newspapers have different sizes of articles for six parties.
In addition, the meeting participants will discuss the implementation of the Agreement on a collective security strategy until 2025.
the fourth - 70th anniversary and participation of the head of state in the 70th session of the UN General Assembly and the introduction of international initiatives.
all crises go through and go away.
The Government secretariat is headquartered in Istanbul.
According to Daniel Medetbekov, the first years of the activity of public service centers showed their effectiveness in fulfilling their tasks to create the most comfortable conditions for the population, eliminate administrative barriers and the reasons that create conditions for corruption, bureaucracy and corruption.
commemorative silver coins made in terms of proof quality are intended for sale at a collectible value.
We express respect for the strong spirit of the people who dedicated their lives to serving the Motherland - soldiers, officers and generals of the armed forces of modern Kazakhstan, who reliably protect the interests of the country, peace and security of our citizens, worthy of military service, starting from combat-ready and hair-boosting.
Leading foreign investors praised the participation of investment courts in improving the Kazakh judicial system.
within the framework of the board of trustees, a special conference will be held "the influence of Islamic universities on distorted understanding."
Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration b. mylybayev "will solve issues of everyday life of people.
together with the president, we must work on the implementation of programs.	today , in the majilis and maslikhats need people that voters can trust .	0,57
To improve the reliability of energy supply and prevent uncontrolled increases in electricity prices for end-users, work is underway to strengthen regional electricity grid companies and electricity organizations.	in order to improve reliability of energy supply sector and prevent uncontrolled rise in electricity prices for final consumers , regional energy network companies and electricity supplying organizations will be integrated .	0,57
Following the event, an exchange of views was held, during which the Kazakh diplomat answered questions of interest to the audience about the state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-German relations.	at the end the guests exchanged views , the kazakh diplomat answered the questions on the status and prospects of development of bilateral kazakh-german relations .	0,57
T. Sarkisyan noted that the Eurasian bodies were instructed to study in detail the appeal of the President of Kazakhstan to the heads of the member states of the union, during which a corresponding plan for the implementation of the main tasks was created.	mr. sargsyan said that the eaeu bodies were instructed to scrutinize kazakhstan president 's address to the heads of the union states .	0,57
The cooperation agreement has been in force since 1996.	the governor told about potential of kostanay region , noting that the focus is on the development of industries and agro-processing .	0,57
the parties expressed their readiness to make every effort to develop comprehensive economic cooperation, noting that both States have enough potential for complementary cooperation.	the sides also expressed readiness to exert every effort to facilitate all-round economic cooperation .	0,57
in particular, he informed representatives of political parties about the rules of electoral legislation regarding the activities of parties during the electoral period, the procedure and conditions for their pre-election campaigning.	v. foos has recommended the representatives of the political parties and lawyers to carry out the explanatory work with their proxies that they concerned the agitation process attentively .	0,57
Speaking about the activities of the garden during the campaign, Turgankulov noted that it is important that every citizen has the opportunity to consciously and carefully realize his suffrage.	all the expenses of candidates associated with the media performances , public campaign events , and other expenses shall be paid only from the election funds .	0,57
- it was a bitter lesson for our young state.	in his opinion , the eeu acts a  stabilizing anchor " for national economies amid the global financial crisis .
Of course, the service level will not be so high, but it will become much better.
In addition, at the launch of the review in Bangkok, the Deputy Secretary-General, Acting Secretary of the Escap Shamshad Ahas, noted that stable growth in real wages requires domestic demand.
Much attention is paid to the improvement of the kindergarten.
it is a single institution of national policy.
At the same time as the manifesto, the Permanent Mission of Kazakhstan presented a delegate to the UN substantive session on disarmament in 2016, which began its work in the New York city on April 4, 2016.
The opening of the enterprise provides permanent employment for 50 people.
The marine chemists said that this would allow Kazakhstan to maintain and strengthen stability.
It should be noted that Kazakh-German relations are developing well today.
there are no irregularities in the elections, there are issues related to the election commission and explanatory work.
The Secretary of State stressed that these events in our history will never be forgotten and will not be repeated again.
According to the decree of the head of state, signed on January 20, early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
retaining what has been achieved, bringing it to new frontiers will require great dedication and great knowledge.
Kazakhstan will continue its efforts to transform the meeting on interaction and confidence-building measures into an Asian security and development organization.
The Kazakh delegation at the international exhibition met with the head of the Iranian railway Mohsen Purseyed and a number of other heads of local companies.
because it not only gives a fair assessment of the activities of state bodies, but also identifies the main vectors of further development.
most often through the portal, compatriots receive an address certificate (62 million), a certificate of pension contributions (11.8 million) and a certificate of registered rights to real estate (18.6 million).
our deep history, a fertile country, all our legal wishes, we glorified, "the head of state said.
In 3 regional specialized boarding schools, subjects are taught in three languages.
As you know, representatives of the new Kazakh generation will take part in these elections.
these economic achievements are the result of the work of Kazakhstan and the head of state.
specialized departments based on the center for supporting entrepreneurs. on the basis of business service centers specialized departments will be opened to provide scientific advisory services to farmers , with emphasis on the introduction of new technologies in agribusiness .
- Director of the plant for laying water pipes in the Aryngazin channel;
In the 21st century, as a way of life, it is necessary to gradually destroy the roots of war and form the geography of a sustainable world.
According to the heads of associations, today in the cooperative there are 52 participants who sow crops on an area of ​ ​ 360 thousand hectares.
Winners of the best products 2015:
small and medium-sized businesses participate in partner discovery.	this platform allows you to communicate about your company .	0,57
In the semifinal match in weight over 80 kg, the athlete of the Central Sports Club of the Army, the master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the corporal ruslan of the Japars defeated the Pakistani taekwondo arshad atief.	according to the rules of the license tournament , corporal ruslan zhaparov obtains a license for the next olympic games in rio de janeiro , the defense ministry reports .	0,57
Participants in the World Youth Forum unanimously expressed the opinion that, understanding our history, we can build our future.	the forum resulted in a resolution stating that one cannot build the future without recognizing one 's history .	0,57
the basis of the unit in these words. dear kazakhstanis , may i congratulate you on the people 's unity day .
- I saw the list of candidates for deputies.
During the conference, representatives of Kazakhstan presented a system of social support for citizens with disabilities in Kazakhstan.
you still need to create a support group and visit the regions.
One of these opportunities is the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development.
According to the minister, these provided funds will be used to provide employment, microcredit, construction of hostels for labor youth, provision of funds from subsidies to employers to maintain jobs through the implementation of infrastructure projects.
Today Kazakhstan has become a major exporter of grain, grain crops, dairy and meat products, fish and other types of food.
- Member of Parliament of the V convocation
It is worth noting that state support measures will be implemented in our country on the basis of improving and preparing a long-term policy and legal regulatory framework.
those values ​ ​ that we now have, such as stability, peace, come as a result of the wise policies of the head of state.
this document is aimed at identifying and returning persons who illegally entered the country or were left after the expiration of the visa or permit. the document provides the procedure of detection and return of people who violated the rules of admission or stay of the country .
the bill will be considered at a poetic meeting of the upper house.
If the mill is started, 1,600 permanent jobs will be created.
The programme includes a complete list of self-contained survival questions with practical skills.
independence is a happy place in the life of the people.
before independence, Turkish ethnic groups lived in isolation.
the first idea of ​ ​ this is an important step for our company, which has gone to further realize its potential. "
against the background of the flag soap in the form of a vertical strip is a national pattern.
The holiday of gratitude was held in the capital with the participation of the head of state.
Following the meetings, cooperation agreements were signed aimed at joint educational activities and scientific research on topical issues of law enforcement practice.
The national plan strengthens the inviolability of Kazakhstan and creates conditions for a decent life for every citizen, the Russian politician believes.
At the same time, the Governor instructed the competent authorities to provide comprehensive support in the implementation of projects of the Iranian company.
The third Kazakh astronaut fell in love with a blue face and raised our anniversary.
In connection with what is happening in the world, it is necessary to hold early elections so that the elected people make quick and effective decisions.
the program "Nұrly zhol" implemented in the region made it possible to increase the volume of construction work to 106.1%.
Following the talks, Afghan businessmen approved an agreement on direct supplies of products.
Starting next year, we want to develop the gold mining industry as much as possible.
Also in the Sairam district (in 2015), the construction of one agent was commissioned at the expense of the regional budget.	the construction of the remaining three agds scheduled to be completed in 2016 .	0,57
both regionally and globally.	the hub will have a big impact , regionally and globally .	0,57
as a result, measures should be taken to eliminate them.	according to the results it is necessary to write-off and take measures .	0,57
Following the discussion, a memorandum of cooperation was adopted between the Association for the Production of Agricultural Machinery in the Yeek and Germany.	finally , the participants discussed the adoption of the memorandum of cooperation between the eurasian economic commission and the association of manufacturers of agricultural machinery in germany .	0,57
design and estimate documentation is ready.	accordingly , there are many kazakh companies on the russian market .	0,57
seven installation sites for such devices were installed in Semipalatinsk.	akim noted the need to increase the number of these sports fields .	0,57
their creative abilities will also develop.	along with the rehabilitation the children develop creativity .	0,57
The volume of industrial products in the manufacturing industry amounted to 251.1 billion tenge or 98.2% compared to the corresponding level of 2014.
In 2015, a total of 1 billion tenge was provided for this construction facility, including 100 million tenge at the expense of the republican budget, 900 million tenge at the expense of the regional budget.
Akim noted that American businessmen are one of the first investors of Kazakhstan since our country gained independence.
During the meeting, it was noted that the constitution does not recognize dual citizenship in the country, and therefore it is necessary to prevent such cases.
also in the region will continue to strengthen relations between workers and trade unions, the signing of a memorandum with the enterprise related to the protection of labor rights of workers.
What has the country received from the presidential program today?
the large-scale sports event started here ended next to the monument to Momyshula's brother, the military department said.
According to him, the plant will be built in the industrial zone of Kyzylorda.
this document is aimed at identifying and returning persons who illegally entered the country or were left after the expiration of the visa or permit.	the agreement will allow to counteract illegal migration and to facilitate the transit of the persons in accordance with international law ,  minister of internal affairs kalmukhanbet kassymov said presenting the bill .
according to him, bonuses will be considered only for the most effective workers, "for those who have proved that in their labor experience you can add supplements to the initial payments."
we see that all this is fully consistent with the constitution.
the member of the delegation responded to the answers of the committee's experts and spoke about specific innovations and priorities in the socio-economic, socio-political spheres.
land cultivation without glyphosate.
At the end of the course, Kazakh officers were awarded diplomas and badges.
Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050": a new political course of a stabilized state. "
Today, 9 deputies from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will be elected in the highest legislative body.
on the back of the banknote there are a number of protective elements: a hydrogen sign, a transparent place with an ornament element printed with color exchange paint, parts of a double image that form a single pattern with parts on the front side when looking at light.
the Federation of Trade Unions has developed an instruction on the conclusion of a collective agreement, a model regulation on the production council, and a regulation on technical inspectors is being prepared.
now there are 9 candidates for deputies, "said E. Tuzhanov.
it is easy to guess about the peculiarities of women's art.
The international election observation mission, in turn, represents intergovernmental organizational activities, international intergovernmental organizations and associations.
Currently, the college has more than 1,600 students, 15 of them are students with poor vision, and they are studying in an inclusive program by state order.
the form and purpose of the federation's activity is to consolidate and coordinate the actions of membership organizations for representation in the protection of socio-economic, labor rights and interests of trade union members, and to promote the provision of legal guarantees for the activities of trade unions.
Within the framework of the event, master classes in some specialties will be held.
the desire for a public service career will be based on the professional quality of the candidate, "he said.
Strtagia is aimed at the development of the country for the coming decades.
in addition, Kazakhstan and Egypt intend to expand cooperation in the pharmaceutical industry.
It should be noted that the materials of the presidential competition for the golden quality award were considered in all three categories: "the best industrial enterprise," "the best enterprise for the production of goods for the population" and "the best service enterprise."
products produced by the Kazakhstan plant meet modern tactical and technical characteristics and include innovative technologies of individual development.
only one problem is that when transported to the port, your transportation costs become quite large.
all of them are visitors to the center through the portal.
the impressive structure of the Kazakh delegation, the interest of the Kazakh business community in Iran.	the sides will pay particular attention to the discussion of issues of trade and investment cooperation , the development of promising areas and problem issues in the sphere of trade .	0,57
in turn, a member of the Unity political party, Rose Kuanyshbaev: "We received the 4th number, as some people say, 8 digits is a sign of infinity, and we received half.
prize winners were awarded cash prizes.
The purpose of the event is to increase physical activity and get rid of bad deeds in compliance with the requirements of a healthy diet, as well as to draw public attention to the general responsibility for protecting and protecting health by forming health habits, the press service of the department reports.
at the same time, every resident of the city, every entrepreneur or organization should feel involved in the improvement of the capital.
As you know, if the issue concerns the economic climate, then he is a little concerned, whether in Kazakhstan, the Chinese and people in the world.
Starting January 1 of this year, the world of Kazakhstan in the manner established by law will begin carrying out the necessary measures and procedures for the creation of a corporation.
The French concern alstom received an additional stake of 25% from ktc and brought its share in the joint venture to 50%.
The opening of the new Chukotka gas field in 2015 allowed to increase natural gas production by 1 billion square meters. m
the challenges of the new global reality of life must confront a single strategy of action based on our real capabilities.
today there is no doubt that the pace of construction is going well and preparations for the exhibition are underway.
thirdly, there is a need to ensure the reliability of State statistics in order to carry out quality planning.
Local executive bodies are responsible for the reliability of the electoral rolls.
Thus, preschool coverage in Almaty region will reach 87%.
other instruments - directly through a subsidiary of Kazagro - Agrarian Credit Corporation.
Recall, the President of Kazakhstan
The project allows the company management to quickly analyze data, predict and model various scenarios for making timely and effective management decisions.
The Olympics are held for the eighth time.
Because the law on combating corruption, on public service was adopted by the law on public councils.
Minister of Energy Kanat Bozumbayev presented information on the volumes of petroleum products for agricultural producers.
During a year and a half of work of the Eurasian Economic Union, we carried out a number of works to promote this integration project.	russian president particularly noted the effectiveness of work in the field of trade restrictions .	0,57
The infrastructure necessary to increase the production of meat products with the involvement of investors in the industry and further export of meat is also fully formed.	it will help to provide the processors of dairy products with feedstock , as well as to increase the production of meat products in the future in order to attract investors .	0,57
In particular, Kazakhstan this year took 15th place in the world in international subject Olympiads.	however , at present the number of schools exceeds 90 ,  she said .
we, aul, "early parliamentary elections of people's representatives and elections of maslikhats of all levels.
young people are now studying in the most prestigious schools.
According to the agenda plan approved by the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan, normal preparations are underway in the region for an extraordinary meeting and the election of deputies of maslikhats of all levels. in accordance with the planned schedule of main activities for preparation and holding of snap elections of the deputies in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels , approved by the cec , the work in the region takes place in a normal mode .
representatives of couples have identified the most important section of activity, the couple will support in the next five years: fundamentally eliminating inequality, supporting management reforms, combating climate change.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
the preservation of national value should be influenced by the people's chosen ones.
The main goal of the action is to perpetuate the memory of the participants of the Second World War and convey their exploits to the heart and consciousness of youth.
this production will be performed by the Italian side.
the parliamentary faction of the White Way party also unanimously supports this decree.
According to B. Sagintayev, many questions are asked in connection with the sale of land.
In turn, President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev instructed the government, relevant departments, ministries of Kazakhstan to carefully consider the recommendations.
the third is the optimal activity of state bodies.
Among them are representatives of agriculture, culture, sports, education, journalists and housewives, owners of the "silver college."
increased patrol units with the involvement of additional forces, more fixed on the streets adjacent to the polling stations.
in some of them, such negatives have not yet been exhausted.
The signing of the decree on the holding of parliamentary elections is the most correct decision in this situation. the decree on early elections is the only correct solution .
The essence of the second reform is that independent justice and the entire law enforcement system of Kazakhstan should be aimed exclusively at ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens, strict implementation of laws and strengthening the rule of law.
in addition, it is proposed to improve the institution of legal monitoring.
each generation has its own dream, in which the desire for only personal and family benefits is not manifested.
in general, this project is in several lines.	today it is about 7 billion tenge .	0,57
- How do you feel about the activities of deputies to legislate to cover reforms in terms of improving our economy, if you have such an attitude as a person with long experience in parliament?	- having a lot of experience after work in the parliament , how could you assess the activities of pms to ensure the legislation for the reforms ?	0,57
Today, a meeting of the budget commission took place, at which we decided to update the plan on the macroeconomic situation, which is applied at 30 dollars per barrel of brent oil.	this morning we had a meeting of the budget committee , where we have decided to update our plan .	0,57
According to production plans for 2016, the plant plans to produce 7 thousand tons of asphalt from large asphalt, 22 thousand tons from small-earth asphalt and 30 thousand tons of asphalt per year.	the plant is to produce more than 7 tons of coarse and about 22 thousand tons of fine asphalt .	0,57
Samruk-kazyna and Kazagro holdings cannot effectively control the huge assets of industry and agriculture.
We devote the III forum to the most pressing and very difficult issues - the resocialization of convicts. this is the third annual forum , which has become an effective dialogue platform .
this is ank, mechanical engineering and the production of building materials.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that more than 1,600 companies with a share of Turkish capital are currently operating in the country, and about 15 thousand Turkish citizens also live.
Now young specialists have a great opportunity to prove their knowledge, "he said.
the object should not be as attractive as real estate.
everyone should have the fullest understanding of how public administration and the rule of law change through legal discoveries.
The appearance of the decree was influenced by a number of reasons.
paratroopers and cadets of the Republican Guard made a military staging.
The main goal with which the parties agreed is to jointly protect the common intellectual heritage, including the unique exhibits of the national museum, and convey it to future generations.
you can learn a lot from the country.
More than a thousand children applied for participation in the event.
many Turkish ethnic groups could not get in touch for historical reasons and the status of the Kazakh language became different.
here, the exterior and interior of the old building, engineering systems are completely changed, floors, walls and ceiling are updated using refractory and water-resistant building materials.
He also noted the directions and directions of comprehensive information support for the implementation of the instructions of the head of state voiced in the message.
According to the methodology for assessing the effectiveness of the use of information technologies, approved by the Order of the Acting Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated February 18, 2015 No. 135, resources are evaluated according to the main criteria, the overall specific meaning of which should be 25 points.
today can be called a historic day in relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Nicaragua. our goal is to develop and strengthen relationship , to develop our economic and trade ties .
therefore, modern students should be able not only to study professionals, but also to engage in research work.
The company is focused on the assembly and supply of automated units of the "zoje" brand, known in the world of sewing and special equipment for enterprises of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the CIS, moving from the light industry to industrial engineering.
Therefore, Kazakhstan has created a road map to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the national vaccination calendar.
In total, more than 5 thousand socially significant, cultural, sports, charity events dedicated to independence were held in Aktobe region.
however, the Bushl resolution was adopted by a majority vote.
- we have a lot of discussions on retirement age.
a plenary meeting is scheduled after the joint meeting.
many reasons for what is happening have not yet been determined.
In addition, 244 billion tenge of investments were attracted.
We agreed to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and Egypt between international organizations.
You can currently purchase tickets at open or scheduled times.
early elections are a tactical step.
among them - a Kokshetau karatist, a strong Kurmangali and laity.
the elimination of war is the most difficult task of human civilization.
The secretariat of the congress developed the concept of the museum, which states that the congress of world and traditional religions was created with the aim of collecting materials, documents and artifacts aimed at promoting its historical role.
The opening of the workshop made it possible to create 4 permanent jobs.
in addition to the administrative room, there is a library, a dining room, a medical room, as well as a rest and rest room for students.
Thus, people with disabilities of "enthusiasts" parkhat yusupzhanov and executive director of the Council Center for Integrated Rehabilitation Veniamin Alaev were accepted for official work in the capital.
In the eurozone, it has become easier to export goods.
ESCAP notes that this is a cause for concern.
thus, the possibility of attracting railway cargo to the territory of Kazakhstan in the direction of the PRC - eo and vice versa was opened.
we consider the combination of the election of deputies of plenary meetings and deputies of maslikhats an objectively justified decision in the current economic conditions.
polling stations abroad also operate from 7:00 am local time to 20:00 pm.	most observers work in astana and almaty , but across the country there are the missions .	0,57
today parliament, in addition to legislative activities, takes a direct part in personnel policy in the country. aware of our civil liability , party 's members put at the center the goal - to give our future generations clean kazakhstan , " r. kuanysheva said .
a modern medical center and equipped with the latest generation of equipment.
The purpose of the job fair is to provide full information on the employment of unemployed citizens with disabilities, as well as on the social protection of the unemployed.
Recall that the Astana Economic Forum is a historical event in the Eurasian space.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues related to the current state and prospects of Kazakh-international cooperation, as well as topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
the exhibition will be shown on a large screen in the atrium on the ground floor.
all of them actively participate in public work.
the next point of the train is the village of Tobol, Kostanay region.
Christmas or other Catholic or Orthodox feast. "
It is also proposed to discuss at the plenary session the further continuation of work on the improvement of civil legislation.
In addition, according to him, in the city akimat during the heating season, a commission was created and is functioning on an ongoing basis, which will consider the issues of connecting facilities to the district heating system.
According to Daritkova, cooperation should be aimed at the benefit of the people.
Recall that Kazakhstan is a consistent supporter of prolonged tension in Syria.
In addition, K. Aralbekova noted that the difference in work between men's entrepreneurs and women is land and spring.
We are also starting the construction of 4 residential buildings for 300 apartments along the residential construction bank line.
Money worth 452.9 billion tenge was legalized, including 80.9 billion tenge by November 30, 2015; on 427 declarations 372.0 billion tenge.
athletes from Kostanay, Karaganda, Aktobe (Aktobe, Khromtau), East Kazakhstan (with growth, families), Almaty regions and the city of Astana turned to him.
in addition, the company, together with the Iranian company niroo transfo, reached a preliminary agreement on the construction of a transformer oil plant in Kazakhstan.
To create additional jobs, the following tools used in the framework of ZhKZ 2020 will be strengthened: employment in infrastructure projects, the application of the opportunities of projects implemented under all state, sectoral and regional programs, and the provision of microcredit for the development of entrepreneurship.
Russia, as a large economy of the Eurasian Economic Union, like other participants, transferred its economic competence as a body of national regulation of the union.
It is worth noting that related and frequently discussed issues on some topics will be discussed in both forums.
in modern society, a woman not only thinking about the family, but also the public, which actively participates in the political life of the state and makes a great contribution to solving the strategic tasks of our country, "said the akim of the region.
In addition, he exhibited in Singapore, Italy, Great Britain, Germany and other countries.
As of March 4, more than 14 thousand citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan were registered for consular registration in various foreign countries.
It is worth noting that 18 sports and recreation complexes planned in 8 regions play a significant role in providing the country's population with sports and recreation activities.
elections could be held on time, but given the impact of today's economic crisis, it would be right to take such a decision.
a draft memorandum of understanding between the EEC and the World Customs Organization has been agreed.
In addition, the bill provides for the protection of the environment, that is, it defines effective ways to protect the environment by determining the responsibility of state bodies and organizations, "said Energy Minister Vladimir Shkolnik, giving a report on the bill.
we must strive to develop our country and enhance its credibility in the international arena.
This meeting was one of the stages of preparation for the regular session of the Collective Security Council with the participation of heads of State, which will be held this autumn.
the corporation will provide the necessary resources in the near future.
The institution of an investigative judge based on the experience of European countries has been introduced, which has become the main instrument of independent judicial control.
subsequently, the electric locomotive is tested for certification.
there was no current diplomatic service.
20 years ago, a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty was concluded and declared open for signature, but has not yet entered into force.
In his speech, Vice-President of the Republic Georgi Tsereteli emphasized that religion must play an important role in achieving peace around the world.
the military profession has become a prestigious profession in demand in the country.
the idea of social harmony was the constitutional basis.
the document was concluded with the relevant reintegration agreement, the department said.
the manifesto offered concrete ways to address those problems.
therefore, its power is not enough.
some even got out of hand.
Also, the Iranian agro ai group "plans to build 15 thousand heads of sheep, 30 thousand heads of cattle and a livestock complex for 10 thousand hectares of pasture in the Zhanakorgan district of the Kyzylorda region.
we went through the path of independence, which occurred in a quarter of a century. i take the initiative of the deputies as the manifestation of the patriotic concern about the fate of kazakhstan .
Thus, having successfully completed language training with the National Defense University and gaining the necessary points for admission, he first went to the Academy of Foreman of Senior Staff (Rhode Island) with a 3rd grade foreman.
If earlier we lived at the expense of oil, non-ferrous metals, now each of us must work and contribute to the development of the country, "said A. Musakozhaeva.
In Aktobe branch it is planned to produce 500-800 passports of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and about 2 thousand identity cards every day.
In particular, the fund is interested in attracting investments in agricultural companies.
Today, digital technologies are needed everywhere.
if the situation of the lands is decided by one person, then he raises suspicions among the population.
As the head of state noted, during the formation of sovereignty, Kazakhstan lived without oil for the first ten years.
I congratulate Kazakhstanis on the March holiday.
I would love to accept this invitation.
The head of the mission noted that the ecu/diakb is ready to help improve the electoral legislation of Kazakhstan in the near future.
doctors of a high professional level work here.
N. Shayakhmetov argues that the future is concluded in the principle of multinational unity of a single nation, which helps each ethnic group maintain its own specificity.
digital program Kazakhstan-2020 is developed by the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the national information and communication holding "Zerde" together with state bodies and experts on the basis of the previous program "Information Kazakhstan-2020."
It should be noted that Germany was the first of the EU countries to confirm its participation in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
in addition, the protocol clarifies the activities of the joint headquarters to eliminate the consequences of the accident.
According to the registration procedure, the executive council consists of 8 members, Kazakhstan becomes a permanent representative.
the head of the presidential administration was also present at the meeting.
According to the expert, since gaining independence, the achievements of Kazakhstan have been assigned to ensuring the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the rule of law.
that is, find additional sources of budget replenishment.
This measure will continue in the future.
Opening the meeting of the public council, the Secretary of State noted the importance of the work of state bodies in the creation of the Security Council.
In addition, at the ECE meeting, the draft Agreement on the Procedure for Copyright and Related Legal Management on a Collective Basis was approved.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of further promoting the principles of peace and security on an international scale, taking into account the complexity of the geopolitical situation.
Also, the Deputy Chairman of the KHA noted that the success of Kazakhstan lies in its unity and harmony.
So, today more than 500 students from Kazakhstan study at the university, which is the second indicator among 150 countries of the world.
today the state repays 7% of the loan received at 14%.
then at the training camp in Korea and Brazil, we begin hot preparations for the Olympics, "said the senior coach of the Ao taekwondo team, the captain of the anoir usen.
Recall, on January 13, deputies took the initiative on early parliamentary elections and maslikhats of all levels.
The Eternal Country train was greeted with joy and festive mood, despite the fact that the rain was blocked.
The concept improved under the leadership of President N. Nazarbayev is an example of a modern state based on a scientific basis, successfully implementing the first and world experience.
the effective functioning of the civil servant is enshrined in the law and is established based on the results of work on wages, "he said.
proposals of the bank and its clients at the stage of designing future housing. the cost of apartments will be approved by the state examination .
in addition, the Energy Charter is an international forum for sharing systemic experiences, knowledge and technology.
Chairman of the Czech-Kazakh mixed chamber of commerce e. tsoi called on Czech businessmen to work in Kazakhstan.
According to the Republic of Kazakhstan, open international routes will expand the geography of Kazakhstan's flights.
Recall that the Umab electric motor is a well-known Romanian company for the production of low-voltage motors and generators.
they died for sacred Kazakhstan and independence, so perpetuating the memory of the immortal feat of our fathers and ancestors is the duty of every Kazakhstani, especially the younger generation.
In turn, the international representative of Estonia noted that during the elections in Estonia, new technologies will be used and all of them will contribute to reducing the work of electoral processes.
The forum will include plenary sessions with the participation of international and domestic experts, representatives of universities and the business community, seminars on broadcasting the experience of Nazarbayev University.
as a result of which the result of submission of the judge's claim is developed.
the event was held in a friendly, interesting and cognitive environment, the participants showed skillful art, resourcefulness.
our supreme council can influence the government.	of course , the expert opinion is important .	0,58
In this regard, the deputy akim of the region was instructed to work out this issue.	in this regard , deputy governor askar sheriyazdanov was instructed to study this issue .	0,58
I work at the judicial ethics commission, and, as practice shows, most complaints against judges are unfounded, "said A. Sarenbaev.
first of all, I would call the anti-crisis stratagem the main problem in the publication of the head of state.
it is these young people who need to be given a vital orientation, protect them from the influence of dubious ideas, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the meeting, M. Zakirzade noted that Tajikistan highly appreciates and officially supports the creation of an Islamic organization for food security.
In turn, hamidi esfahani mohtava aliriza informed the Governor of Aktobe region that the Iranian state is ready to invest in the development of crop production in the territory.
In this regard, I believe that the early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament of our country are a very reasonable and rational initiative for the full implementation of specific instructions of the head of state. "
in this group, the bells of the academy of andrei kashechkin.
As part of the forum, the President of Kazakhstan met with the Governor of Askar Mama Jiangsu Province, the Mayor of the Lianyungang Xiang City People's Government and the leaders of a number of leading Chinese companies.
now they are summing up their work and making plans for the future.
Turan tigers are also called Caucasian or Caspian.
they proposed different programs so that everyone in society consciously came to their decision.
Independence survived the whole history, thanks to kinship and fate, which was at the top of the modern Kazakhstani people.
Note that the XIII Eurasian Media Forum officially opened in the capital.
Kazakhstan has adopted laws related to the implementation of these reforms.
- Strengthen legislative monitoring of arms trafficking and storage, strengthen responsibility for violation of this discipline, conduct a comprehensive inspection of all actors involved in this activity.
a women's council has been established in all our cultural organizations. all our cultural associations and women 's councils work actively on the development , preservation of their family values , traditions , ethnic traditions , their own language and , of course , the training and development of the state language .
to increase this amount several times, we will have enough projects.
to this end, a number of amendments and additions have been made to the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Today, there are several large fishing enterprises along the Island Sea, one of which is this company.	it is worth noting , there are several large factories for the production of fish products on the shores of the aral sea .	0,58
the implementation of the second stage of the project, the construction of 500 square meters of families - aktogai - taldykorgan - apple ash, began this year.	even if we do not have time to run the spp before expo-2017 , before the close of the exhibition there will be the completion .	0,58
According to the press service of the EEC, on the basis of the signed document there is a mechanism of cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and Korea.	the signed document will create a permanent mechanism for cooperation of the eurasian economic union ( eaeu ) and korea .	0,58
We, the Jews, firmly believe that the new message will become a modern vital document aimed at the prosperity of the country-creator and our Motherland, will satisfy all good deeds carried out within the corresponding directions, "said Abdinov.
It should be noted that the initiative to cancel was put forward by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in 2011 at the 38th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers.
Also, an examination showed that 43.4% of the population need gyms, a deficit of 56.6%.	according to the minister , it is important for the future sport of kazakhstan to develop a network of children 's and youth sports schools , specialized children 's and youth schools .	0,58
today Almaty residents leave good reviews about the metro.	nowadays almaty 's residents have praised the underground .	0,58
I believe that our policies can be fully implemented, on the one hand, while waiting for concrete results.
and in the evening, tennis courts for residents of the regional center will be transferred for mass sports.
The head of state also informed about the industrialization map.
an inventory of our history and the prosperity of our culture.
Also in the train there is a mobile team of the republican center of ambulance aviation.
that is, conditions will be created for increasing the country's exports.
we are ready to train employers, we have specially trained people who can competently understand labor legality.
What result will the holding of elections give us?
among them - the goal of sustainable development, environmental protection, health development.
The Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan advocates the early completion of the powers of the Majilis of Parliament as the largest public organization in the republic. as the largest social organization in the country , the federation of trade unions of kazakhstan supports the early termination of powers of the majilis .
the procedure for forming a single list of products is fundamental methodological documents, forms a unified policy of the countries of the union in the field of technical regulation.
now there is a demand for Russia and Turkey.
for me, all further plans are obvious.
One of the goals of the republican action is to provide accessible, highly qualified medical care to the population.
then, in recent years, we rebuilt the ruined economy of our State and laid the foundation for independence.
As of February 12, 2016, only 6 party lists submitted to the Central Election Commission were registered.
we were only allowed to use lamb.
According to the report of the 1st of 18.03.2016 on code 206110 "fee for legalization of property" the budget actually received 3.4 billion tenge
Hungarians still celebrate the shadow Karachun holiday.
The first such site was put into operation on the embankment.
according to Kazakhstanis, participation in such competitions will contribute to improving the level of training, given that we are forced to work in an unusual clay-wooded area.
The main idea of ​ ​ the Olympiad is the education of Kazakhstani schoolchildren with higher education and the in-depth development of natural and mathematical sciences.
7 auctions were held in Aktobe over the past two years, 117 plots were sold, in turn, 86 auctions were held in East Kazakhstan region over the past three years, 532 land plots were sold.
We are pleased to welcome you to our country.
it was a substantive seminar.
our relationship has reached a higher level.
As a result of the event, young people of different nationalities who are fluent in the Kazakh language called on their peers to contribute to the development of the Kazakh language.
As a result of the refusal of the preliminary investigation and the stage of initiating criminal proceedings, the rights of the victims are immediately restored. automation of the unified register of pretrial investigations has simplified the process , allowed to monitor the investigation online .
despite the money that he invested in the charter fund, his rights are equated with others, "said R. Kurmanov.
Today, during the nationwide teleconference, it is planned to summarize the results of the industrial-innovative program, including 2015, while President N. Nazarbayev launched 18 new objects of the industrialization map online.
The results were achieved on two indicators of 3 target indicators for 2015.
The competition has been held since 2005, 5 thousand people will take part in it.
elections contribute to this.
no obstacles to business.
for example, in the Mangistau region, the Italian tenary company plans to launch a new oil pipeline.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that this should not be allowed.
to implement it, specialists who know life must arrive.
He noted that 2015 was a favorable year for strategic partnership.
It is worth noting that most of the promises in terms of the nation concern the economy, entrepreneurship.
our important task is to quickly stabilize the financial system and bring it into line with the new global reality. in the near future we 'll need a set of anti-crisis measures and structural reforms in five directions .
to provide the enterprise with raw materials, a refrigerator for storing milk is installed in 2 places.
residents should be sure that their problems will be solved.
such competitions are an exam for assessing the readiness of personnel and crews to fulfill their direct purpose - to protect the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, terrorism and violent extremism arise in the interests of dissatisfaction, the more they are not allowed.
we will solve the tasks only through integrity and mutual understanding.
at the same time, the composition entering the queue on New Year's Eve is periodically trained.
The main goal of akhko is to form a leading international center in Kazakhstan to attract global investors.
In addition, in accordance with the contract of the project, more than 600 Kazakhstani contracting enterprises are working, "said D. Shalbayev.
It is worth noting that in 2016, the wages of government employees included in the B corps are increasing, "the President of Kazakhstan noted.
According to the rector, Norway, Sweden and Finland lead the world ranking in terms of living conditions, the fight against corruption, gin per capita.
The new plan of the nation is the main tool for revival based on the great experience of the advanced democratic country.
In order to legislate for the plan of the nation of the head of state, the Senate, together with the government, will continue large-scale work.
I think the main thing is the desire to master the state language.
As the deputy noted, all reforms carried out over the years of independence will be continued to improve our existence.
It should be noted that the article is an anti-crisis plan for the further development of the country's economy.
Defender of the Fatherland Day and Victory Day are held in parallel. it is symbolic that the holidays the day of defender of the fatherland day and the victory day go together .
in accordance with the principles of the new reform, legislation, in the first place, the social and personal rights of public servants are preserved. institute of rotation is being introduced for the state officers of " b " corps .
most of the products presented in it are produced at factories launched as part of the first five-year plan of the industrialization program.
Since last year, more than 25 thousand reporting meetings of district inspectors with the population have been held in the republic, "said M. Beketaev.
Annually, in order to further consider employment issues in the capital, a survey is conducted among graduates of universities and colleges, as well as among schoolchildren to determine the necessary specialties.
the deputies of the maslikhat unanimously supported this candidacy.
According to the organizers of the session, corporate social responsibility is not only the company's responsibility for people, organizations that meet in the process of activity, but also the collection of principles that lie in their business plans, as well as the philosophy of organizing business and social events that the company adheres to, taking care of its development, ensuring the life of people.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the importance of preserving jobs at enterprises in the region, introducing innovations into the production process.
This year, the company, which has increased the sown area for oilseeds to 1.5 thousand hectares, plans to increase production annually.
financial assistance provided by the state and the Baiterek holding makes it possible to achieve cheap financing, which, in turn, will lead to the expansion of sales markets and solving priority issues of the development of the electrical industry in Kazakhstan, "said Sergey Kuntuarov, General Director of Kentau Transformer Plant JSC.
The meeting also discussed preparations for the first session of the General Assembly of the Islamic Organization for Food Security with 7 sessions of the Conference of Ministers of Food Security and Agriculture.
The total program involves 28 of the strongest domestic companies selected from 300 companies.
I consider the decision to dissolve the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections in the lower chambers and maslikhats to be correct.
physical products amounted to 102.8%.
Bank employees should familiarize themselves with the size of the commission before the key payment operation, "said D. Akishev.
The territorial commission of the district determined that 302,186 voters will take part in the elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats, "said A. Ibrashev.
it was from you.
the supply of new infrastructure should be obliged to create a re-market at the level of technological advancement and have a powerful human resource.
the director of the depot indicated the time of the enterprise, and also voiced the issue of the seizure of seals, currently the depot receives a seal from the Russian Federation.
As the Chairman of the Majilis noted, he worked for a long time in the responsible state bodies, until today he worked as Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan.
the head of the media holding said that he would take part in this forum.	upon completion of the meeting , the kazakh ambassador presented the 1st volume of the famous trilogy  nomads " by ilyas essenberlin to the library of al-ahram .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that two months earlier the republic had signed an agreement on expanded partnership with a large investment and trading partner - the European Union.
in creative work, we became a single people, creating a successful, established and endowed state to the world.
today we are known and respected by all countries.
there is a program, priority areas are identified, it is specified what needs to be done to implement them.
It should be noted that in Kazakhstan, influenza vaccination is carried out in order to prevent diseases before the epidemiological season.
Kazakhstan will do everything possible for the further dynamic development of our integration association and will actively work in deepening ties with the Shanghai Cooperation Organization during its chairmanship.
In January and October 2015, investments in fixed assets amounted to 1081.8 billion. Tenge, which is 118.4% more than the same period of 2014.
opening a meeting, huh. Daulbaev congratulated the guest on his election to the post of Secretary General of the Association of Nations, which includes 53 countries.
there was also an exchange of views on the draft collective security strategy for the period up to 2025.
On Monday, by a decree of the head of state, askhat daulbaev was dismissed from the post of Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job. on monday , by the presidential decree askhat daulbayev has been dismissed as general prosecutor of kazakhstan .
I think that this will strengthen business relations between our countries, expand ties between interested enterprises, "said the chairman of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan Meirbek Mazhitov.
Recall that the United Nations Children's Fund is the largest organization in the world, covering more than 190 countries, protecting the rights of children, contributing to meeting their basic needs and expanding opportunities for comprehensive development.
we are faced with the task of dealing with a completely new threat - the destruction of cybercrime, which can become a particularly dangerous weapon in the hands of terrorists.
there are now a number of difficulties in the world.
Recall that in order to implement the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament took the initiative to hold early presidential elections in the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
It should be noted that during the seminar, employees of our company, which is the national operator of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, will share their experience in working with new space technologies.
Over the week, participants demonstrated not only accurate shooting skills, but also the speed of orientation on the ground with further access to a given area, the ability to use new devices to take into account adjustments, as well as the ability to perform combat missions day and night at a turning point.
At the seminar-meeting with the participation of Governor of the region K. Kusherbayev and local and territorial bodies, the progress of the planned measures for the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" was considered 100kadam.kz.
the number of sheep and goats increased by 2.4% (411 thousand heads), horses - by 5% (99 thousand heads), pigs - by 0.5% (161.5 thousand heads), birds - by 5% (4685 thousand heads).
He noted the high importance of the meeting of exchange of experience in the context of further expansion of bilateral cooperation and development of legal systems of Kazakhstan and Great Britain.
In turn, o.ren noted that a number of Finnish companies pay special attention to the topic "energy of the future."
the number of active SMEs has decreased, and milk production has decreased in agriculture.
in addition, during the presentation, the task of the center is to create a common information and search engine and organize orders in industry, organize and subcontract exchanges, organize advisory support for industrial enterprises to find partners in cooperation.
144 regional winning enterprises take part in the competition.
Committee on Agrarian Issues of the Majilis will deal with the bill and prepare an opinion on it
the total cost of the project is 35.8 billion tenge.
The project cost is 1.1 billion tenge.
The event was held in the regional philharmonic society named after G. Zhubanov.
also an electronic garden will be presented online, including strategy2050.kz. information agency.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Azerbaijani side.
borrowed funds were received at the rate of 14% per annum, of which 7% are paid by the entrepreneur, the remaining 7% - at the expense of the state.
Positions of 13 corporate centers and 84 positions of top managers, heads of 1,500 secondary specialties.
In order to improve the air basin 2015-2016, a comprehensive plan of measures to improve the quality of atmospheric air in Astana has been approved and is being implemented.
Recall that the Kazakh Foreign Ministry began a cycle of meetings between Kazakhstan and ambassadors abroad.
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to take measures to organize the extraordinary twenty-third session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the order says.
It should be noted that the implementation of measures within the framework of the bilateral military-political dimension is one of the priority areas of Kazakhstan's activities.
demonstration of different styles, fascination with the metropolitan public - their main task.
three of them are from the United States; 97 observers from CIS observer missions (33 of them from the inter-parliamentary assembly of CIS member states and 7 from the parliamentary meetings of the Belarusian and Russian union); 3 observers - from the organization of Islamic cooperation, "she said.
This was announced by Deputy Chairman of the Majilis Gulmira Isimbayeva.
Approved the concept at the level of sentencing managers.
The UN Security Council decided to introduce UN units to solve this problem.
therefore, I proposed the creation of a single global network against international terrorism and extremism under the auspices of the UN. besides , having close historical and spiritual ties with the middle east , kazakhstan plans to strengthen relations with the islamic world and middle east in general .
At the same time, the vice president of the Ecu parliamentary assembly emphasized that diversity is not an obstacle to building peace and stability.
this project, initiated a year earlier by the President of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Doctor of Economic Sciences, Academician Gani Alimov Kaliev, has tremendous effectiveness.	in this context , the department has researched the area to identify unused arable land ,  - he said .
an opportunity to get support for their idea for those who were not represented in parliament.
funds were required to implement the startup.
if this initiative is agreed with the head of state, then in this case it will be possible to update the composition of the deputies.
the size of their pensions depends on the length of service and the cost of money, starting from the moment of dismissal from office.
this initiative was supported by the president.
This year, 30 investors will launch their new business. " isekeshev.
Web services admitted to the bid must be presented as an agreed link.
therefore, it is necessary to monitor the goods receipt.
Following the meeting, the parties advocated strengthening further cooperation in conducting strategic studies in the field of energy.
Within its framework, in order to intensify economic cooperation with the People's Republic of China, the possibility of implementing 14 investment projects with the participation of Chinese companies is being considered.
and the lowest indicator was shown by West Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Mangistau regions (below 100 applications).
In a matter of days, we raise the flag of freedom and enter the 25th anniversary of independence.	as the student believes , the current message reflected the main objectives of kazakhstan in the near future in terms of the global crisis .	0,58
The head of state emphasized that leading Turkish companies and holdings can take an active part in the implementation of industrial and innovative development programs and the bright path for which significant funds are allocated from our state. "
It presents the national dishes of 22 ethnocultural associations.
the zone of peace in South America, the South Atlantic and the Indian Ocean has considerable potential.
people built a single life system, adapted to various stages of life.
coverage and regulation of safety in the use of nuclear energy allows institutions using nuclear energy to meet safety requirements and minimize the costs of their implementation.
once again, the planet began to fluctuate sharply from the cold war, which had catastrophic consequences for all mankind.
The Netherlands will take part in Expo 2017, and I am sure that this event will be very successful, "he said, thanking for the hospitality and expressing hope for further strengthening of cooperation between the two countries.
aa. peña neto expressed the interest and readiness of the Mexican side for the comprehensive development of relations between Kazakhstan and Mexico.
LLP plans to increase the volume of grain and feed for Herford cows this year.
This was prepared by a group of engineers.
The project includes the Aktogai mining and processing plant.	also , the head of the region informed on the construction of mining and processing complex bakyrchik mining enterprise in zharma district .	0,58
therefore, there is no shortage of labour.	the minimum wage in our shop is higher than the regional average .	0,58
the program was developed jointly with other enterprises and our international academic partners. in 2015 , the qs rating , recognized by the international community , included 9 kazakhstani universities : the 275th place - al-farabi kazakh national university , the 371st place - gumilyov eurasian national university , " the ministry of education and science of kazakhstan reported .
If 2006 enterprises participated in 52 year, today the commission selected 10 competitive enterprises in each nomination from 153 applications. the number of participants is increasing from year to year .
Rosa Seilkhanova, Head of the Department of Non-core Payments of State Revenues for East Kazakhstan Region, reported on the new legalized facility in the region at a press conference in the Information Center of East Kazakhstan Region.
The republican contest "The best public reception party" Nұr Otan "of 2016" was also announced.
He also said that he had visited polling station No. 120.
patriotic act will become a compass.
it was released in Germany by heinmetall and assists in the training and training of summer personnel in all main tasks.
According to the press service of the party, 127 people were included in the party list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of mutual cooperation, kindergartens, schools, polyclinics are being built.
The first to land was the commander of the air force, who detained the Su-27 plane, major general of aviation dauren kosans.
Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the military parade on Red Square, and also took part in the ceremony of laying flowers at the grave of an unknown soldier.
So, during the discussion, the deputies adopted the law "On the use of atomic energy."
During the meeting, Francis mod noted that the UK is responsible for the development of public service in the cabinet and initiated a number of reforms in this area, as well as was engaged in the introduction of innovations in the public administration system.
Tank crews of the 10810 military unit are ready to defend the honor of the armed forces of Kazakhstan at international tank biathlon competitions this year.
In March 2016, compared to the previous month, prices for the sale of new housing decreased by 2.5%, for the resale of landscaped housing - by 0.6%, for underprivileged housing - by 0.1%.
It is planned to implement a package of products produced within the framework of the customs union by 2020 to increase the level of localization to 80%.
1000 tons of finished products per month.
with the help of the program, he will receive concrete transport.
The message of the head of state will be broadcast live on domestic television channels.
in the region there are five theaters for a symphony orchestra.
In addition, Kazakhstanis should take part in the timely implementation of the election program, for which they voted.
In order to ensure transparency of the regional police in the region, a public council has been created.
for lack of disciplinary action.
The deputies, based on the implementation of the program of 100 concrete steps and aggravation of the economic situation in the country, on January 13 turned to the head of state with a request to suspend the mandate of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament and to call early elections, according to the decree of the President of Kazakhstan. These elections are scheduled for March 20.
During the plenary session, the decision of the commission on the adoption of the Kazakhstan Association of State Reporting on Resources and Funds crirsco will be announced.
I use all my experience and knowledge in this area, "said a.myrsakhmetov.
to determine the inventory number of reinforced concrete arched cars with special mounted equipment and for commercial inspection.
According to a foreign political scientist, the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev is to strengthen the institution of a business ombudsman.
The event was initiated by the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of Akmola region.
It is expected that by the end of the year such charity events will be continued and organized.
the creation of this structure contributes to improving the public service system in the country and combating corruption.
special attention is paid to the training and professional development of young professionals, especially in lower territorial units.
The head of state set the task of doubling labor productivity in industry over 10 years. president set a task to increase productivity in the manufacturing sector by 2 times .
Mangistau region does not belong to transport isolation. thanks to the modernization , the port has the ability to increase the frequency of ferry connections with all major ports on the caspian sea .
After that, the local district commission will inform voters about them, "said the chairman of the commission.
kantai leather began her career after retirement.
not a bad result.
what laws depend on the fate of the population.
this must be done today so that tomorrow our children and grandchildren live calmly on earth, "the head of state said.
development of new public relations within the framework of the adopted basic procedures within the framework of the BCL.
the project works to strengthen national unity.
their main task is to stimulate the development of private energy-saving service companies for the provision of complex services in the field of energy saving with reimbursement of their own costs and obtaining funds in actually achieved energy saving.
The entire foreign commission is equipped with the necessary materials.
As for inter-parliamentary cooperation, a group on cooperation with the Russian Federation, as well as an inter-parliamentary commission with the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, is working at the meeting.
these are enterprises for the production of fabric, hygroscopic cotton, cotton pulp, workwear, uniforms, socks and carpets, paperboard, etc.
at the initiative of the head of state, a council of Turkic peoples was created.
Including the ability to electronically submit an application for marriage registration, register with a medical institution, make an appointment with a doctor and check for a ban on traveling abroad through the register of debtors.
The basis was laid for the further implementation of the nation's plan, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
And in 4 months last year, we issued 783 visas.
two ski slopes work on rides.
The main arbiter of the event is the Japanese rika yammato.
nowadays it was impossible.
products are made from natural raw materials without any additives.
the ratio of the width and length of the flag - 1:2 the national flag of independent Kazakhstan was officially adopted in 1992.
According to N. Nazarbayev, the main result of the ongoing reform was a radical change in the well-being of citizens.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the measures taken contributed to an increase in the share of women in the development of the country's economy.
according to our plans, on Saturday children will receive comprehensive development, the opportunity to attend linguistics courses or sports sections.
every fifth voter who voted from the polling station participates in the poll, "A. Sadvakasova said.
not everyone knows how to hold and companies.
all conditions are really created in preschool institutions.
at the same time, grants from the Ministry of Education and Science and local akimats will be distributed by labor specialties.
This year, world leaders are ready to participate, having achieved global success in business, science and innovation.
But the point is that they want to get rid of a large number of companies that have received huge government subsidies.
justice in Kazakhstan becomes as transparent as possible, taking into account the right to privacy of citizens.
I am sure that this holiday will make our people even stronger and will have a great contribution to bringing the prosperous Kazakh people to an eternal country! "- said the military Piriev.
the inability to predict range under previous agreements on anti-missile systems and conventional weapons led to the political militarization of Eurasian space.
The faction of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan discussed this initiative and gave its consent with the aim of implementing five institutional reforms.
In order to attract investment in our region, business trips to Europe, Asia and Russia were organized, as a result, 24 projects with the participation of foreign investors worth more than 2 billion US dollars are being implemented in the region, "said B. Atamkulov.
on its scale, particular attention is paid to methodological support.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, they are physically trained and together with men master the combat training program.
exemption from all types of tax payments and staff of section associations and employees; exemption from customs payments of office associations of the section; providing annual multiple visas to the staff of the section participating in the exhibition, as well as their family members; this agreement provides benefits for the Commissioner's family and section employees; According to the UN Convention on Road Traffic of November 8, 1968, driving certificates of official participants are valid in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. exemption of the commissioner and staff members from all tax payments and fees ; exemption from customs duties ; issuing free annual visa to all the staff , including members of their families ; kazakhstan recognizes driving licenses issued by the countries - participants of the un convention on road traffic .
each day is devoted to a certain interesting topic.
glyphosate, which was constantly told to me by farmers.
Recall that from June 9 to 10 in the capital will be held the 24th plenary meeting of the EAT to counter the legalization of criminal proceeds and the financing of terrorism.
in addition to preventing traditional threats, a new evil of the world is advancing - terrorism.	addressing the speech , ye . idrissov noted that security and stability has become one of the primary tasks of the sco states .	0,59
I understand it was paid for three years.	it is designed for three years .	0,59
According to the Vice Minister, an interesting and promising project for Kazakhstan in the energy sector is participation in the second section of construction work on the construction of the Bozoy-Shymkent gas pipeline.	in the field of transport infrastructure there is a very interesting project - the construction of road transport corridor  western europe - western china . "
in general, it can be concluded that the activities of garden parties are covered on equal terms and in comparable volumes.
On January 20, a decree was signed on the dissolution of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
Food security assessment and monitoring.
V. Porubaimeh noted that another issue concerns the celebration of the Day of State Symbols.
During the meeting of the Forum, more than 20 speakers from 10 countries of the world will be touched upon topical issues.
Latvia is one of the greenest countries until 2020 and during the meeting expressed its readiness to cooperate with Kazakhstan in the field of green energy.
The price change came in the range of $35 to $70.
The fourth stage is the change in the purpose of agricultural land.
according to the law, political parties can appoint members who have the right to an advisory vote to the electoral campaign.	according to him , on january 25 this year representatives of all election commissions , representatives of government agencies , which are involved in the campaign , representatives of the political parties met .	0,59
you have witnessed my visits and negotiations with the leaders of the world's leading countries.	you have seen my visits and talks with the heads of leading countries .	0,59
control indicators are not exaggerated.	as the analyze shows , the influenza and arvi situation is stable .	0,59
pontoon-bridge park is designed for equipment of bridge and ferry crossings through water barriers.	in particular , there will be the river system link pmp floating bridge and heavy mechanized bridge on the basis of kamaz-63502 , the ministry of defence reported .	0,59
During the meeting, the x. chambers noted that they are considering the preparation of the Dutch side for the strategic programs "Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps. "
this is a small contingent of troops in size.
During the republican stage, the winners were determined by a commission consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Education, other interested state bodies, public organizations and associations of legal entities in the higher and postgraduate education system, as well as leading scientists and specialists.
According to the Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Entrepreneurs, the current entity of entrepreneurial activity can receive land only through an auction.
However, in general, export volumes are increasing, "the minister said.
Recall that in the capital a meeting was held between President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and Senegalese President Maki Salla.
Recall that Nazarbayev University was founded in 2010 at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan also supports the idea of creating a large-scale anti-terrorist front on the basis of a steam charter, which in the future can become part of a world network capable of countering terrorism.
Today, one of the most important measures is the elections at the meeting.
The event was attended by 157 people and assistance was provided to 17,988 million 7,114 thousand tenge.
In addition, the monitoring showed that adolescents take care of their parents' records on social networks, and not paid.
It is pleasant that Kazakhstanis achieved great success at the Youth Olympic Games. it is a very happy event that kazakhstan acieves success in the youth olympic games .
now in the region 578 general education schools.
concession is one of the types of PPPs, "he said.
a contract was signed for the preparation of design estimates for the creation of infrastructure through Kazgiprovodstroyproekt.
To date, 650 young people's shops and 2 workshops for 8 thousand birds have been built here.	the state program  business road map 2020 " allocated about 250 million tenge for that , " the statement reads .
however, processing did not develop correctly.
this will not affect the election results.
The holiday will come on December 21, when a great exchange will take place: the sun gradually stretches and the night is reduced.
my investment in this is time and effort.
about five thousand people could see him.
this will contribute to the further development of the country.
this largely solves the problem of employment. "
For example, if Aksha universities spend billions of dollars on research, then Tel Aviv University spends 2.5 million dollars a year on research.
I instruct the government to abolish the priority rights to acquire the assets of those who are deprived of the property of all shareholders.
To date, Pavlodar potatoes with their quality have become the brand of the region in the Kazakh and foreign markets, the report said.
on the same day e. Idrissov took part in the opening of an exhibition of drawings on the topic against nuclear tests in the building of the steam department in Vienna.
Voting will take place on March 20 from 07:00 to 20:00 local time at 9,840 polling stations.
These measures are aimed at stimulating the work of scientists and increasing their significant contribution to science.
Erik Sultanov asked about the volumes of raw materials processing, about the jobs being opened.
the launch is scheduled for the end of January this year from the launch complex at 200 sites of the cosmodrome and opens the space year at Baikonur.
According to the head of the department, the official opening of the center, created in October last year and performing relevant work in the field of tourism, will be held on April 28.
all polling stations are equipped with the necessary equipment and all conditions for our work are created.
these changes are aimed at improving the quality of training of medical personnel.
It is worth noting that the quality of houses under construction is under strict control.
the past casting receives a direction to participate in this competition.
More than 400 representatives of the garden will broadcast from the forum.
it is very important to know the language of modern equipment.
In this regard, the signing of a memorandum with a regional hub in the field of public service will be an initiative of fruitful cooperation in this direction.
during spraying, the method of drip irrigation of plants is used.
An important program, "said the head of the department.
As Attorney General of England and Wales, as well as in positions of responsibility in the House of Lords, the Ministries of Foreign and Home Affairs, patricia has made a significant contribution to strengthening the legal system of Scottish Britain and the interaction of legal bodies.
unity and its strengthening is the kindest thing, "the deputy said.
maslikhats are actively nominated for deputies.
According to him, the renewal of the parliament, the arrival of new ideas, creative deputies to it - will allow you to carefully work with the legislation and create the necessary base for improving the investment situation in the field of subsoil.
When developing a bill on general transfers, financing of all local investment projects through targeted transfers from the national budget from 2017 will be fully transferred to the local level. the draft law on transfers states that the local investment projects will be implemented at the expense of the local budget .
the delegation from our field was the largest.
German equipment is installed in the workshop.
as part of this competition, we are looking for fair judges who will help us choose the best job.
The Nur Otan Party is a leader who justifies the hopes of the people, also supports the vast majority of Kazakhstanis and counts on his entrepreneurship and perseverance.
According to the company, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Tatarstan was chosen as the partner of this event.
then the delegation visited the regional children's hospital.
jaan reinhold, in turn, arrived in the region with specific offers.
Early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected by the party list, will be held on March 20, 2016.
Creation of new industries and jobs.
the company acquires a segment of multimedia and transit transportation, as well as improves the efficiency of quality indicators in mass transportation.
Diakb has a mandate to monitor elections of any level.
A total of 44 thousand square meters were commissioned.
The coat of arms of sovereign Kazakhstan was officially adopted in 1992.
The number of professional internships has also been reduced.
from. According to Shakenova, the production volumes of the enterprise allow you to work in the mode of wholesale trade.
Christmas has become an integral part of the spiritual life and traditions of our people in connection with the promotion of good and good, love and sympathy.
In addition, he noted the best state and administrative reforms in Estonia, and also shared his experience in optimal management of financial resources.
If the region shifts to sustainable strategic development at the expense of domestic demand, ESCAP proposes a preference for increased productivity and wages. if the region will move to a more sustainable development strategy through the domestic demand , the escap recommends greater emphasis on the productivity along with a proportionate increase in the real wages .
During the year, large-scale reforms were carried out over the years of independence.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also informed about the main directions of agricultural development in the region, including comprehensive measures to ensure food security.
they present their strategies and current conditions.
today, March 1, this holiday, first celebrated in Kazakhstan, covered a total of about 800 events.	the maternity hospital is carrying out  suyynshy " campaign to express gratitude to the mothers .
After that, the working group saw the first road tunnel in Kazakhstan in the village of Shakpak baba.
Over the past three years, the city of Taraz and the tulketer of the region on the basis of Taraz State University have passed championships and medals.
According to the project managers, the products supplied to the market will be cheaper and better than Russian and Chinese material.
for example, foreign direct investment increased by 81% in the refining of petroleum products.
thanks to these allocated support funds and systematic work, the volume of agricultural crops increased by 772.5 thousand hectares.
As a result of negotiations held at the business forum in Tehran, our national champion "- the company" alageum electric "plans to establish the export of transformers to Iran.
In her opening remarks, the Secretary of State noted that President Nazarbayev pays special attention to the education of young people.
4) establishment of business processes in internal corporate documents;
According to him, during the visit of the Kazakh delegation chaired by Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshov, a memorandum was signed on the construction of a creamery with safflower in the Kostanay region.
The Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov informed about the progress of the campaign on legalization of property.
More than 500 Kazakhstanis were awarded the title of Heroes of the Soviet Union.
it can be found by the fifth selected item.
a worthy continuation of the prestigious path of the previous generation.
export of finished products was carried out with the support of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Currently, the singer began work in Italy.
served as consul general of Germany in Kaliningrad.
According to the deputy director of the Chinese Shen Zheng Student Sports Federation, China will send the strongest team in its history.
these people worked a lot on the development of the country, and they are skillful specialists in their field. "
Following the meeting, the Prime Ministers of the two countries expressed interest in strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation.
among citizens who moved to new addresses, 8.4 thousand people of working age, of which 6.5 thousand people or 77.3% of the total figure were employed.
invitations to individuals to enter Kazakhstan and documents for their departure from the country will be issued. since april 1 , the term of the issuance of documents in astana , almaty , aktobe and shymkent will be reduced up to two working days , " - the mia of rk reported .
It is expected that in the run-up to the elections, another 400 short-term observers will arrive.
competitions in national sports were also organized at the central venue.
a number of Saxon industrialists participate in industrialization projects in Kazakhstan and intend to contribute to the holding of EXPO-2017 in Astana.
Such activity is an important step in fulfilling the tasks set by the Kazakh people and the head of our state before the deputies and the tasks set in the national plan, "Nurlan abdirov said.
In addition, it is planned to launch the third production cycle for the production of pharmaceuticals by the end of the year.
Kazakh deputies made a very reasonable decision.
a joint commission on the quality of medical services will be created.
In the future, we will go to the city of rehabilitation.
in the event of cases requiring urgent inpatient care, patients are taken to multidisciplinary hospitals depending on the profile of the disease.
our production is almost forged and made of felt. we have a production of handmade felt .
In addition, a proposal was considered to create a coordination mechanism in the field of counteracting counterfeit products in the EAEU and the need to create an expert group under the advisory committee.
The parties highly appreciated the work of the Kazakh-American special commission on energy partnership and expressed confidence in its further development.
with the transfer of republican military schools to the Ministry of Defense. with the transfer of the republican military schools big changes have appeared .
The Estonian Minister met with the rector of the Academy of Abdrasylov Bolatbek and noted the importance and relevance of the event, noting that young civil servants of Kazakhstan are interested in the best practices of Estonia in the field of state policy and the economy.
during armed resistance.
Recall that in October 2015, the head of state signed the constitutional law "On Amendments and Amendments to the Constitutional Law" On State Symbols. "
The international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2016" has become an excellent platform for the latest achievements in the field of defense industry and the exchange of views of specialists.
The project will produce 350 million ampoules of injectable solution, 4 million packets of infusion solution, 40 million vials of antibiotics and 1 billion tablets.
calendar of health activities for schoolchildren.	the draft law  on employment " was developed .
thus, dozens of fields will be opened in the future and confirmed according to experts. thus , a dozen fields will be open in the future .
At the opening ceremony, Assistant Secretary of State of Kazakhstan N. Biswal noted that "Kazakhstan highly appreciates cooperation with Kazakhstan."
I hope that the new deputy corps, as a citizen of the republic, will work, covering the entire social period.
deputies elected from the party should legislatively ensure anti-crisis and structural transformations.
the head of state also focused on the problems of mortgage borrowers.
As for the early elections of deputies of the lower chamber and their holding in parallel with the elections to local maslikhats, I consider this the right decision, "said the professor.
as for the elections, since yesterday we have been at the very beginning of this process and no violations have been recorded.
However, according to him, the global document clearly reflects ways to prevent the causes leading to war and conflict.
the absence of combat support, control, communications and psychological combat units in the detachment, which are operationally or directly subordinate to the commander of the collective operational response.
pensioners come to us.
According to the results of a sociological study conducted in 2015, today the share of those who speak the state language is 91.3%, and representatives of other nationalities who speak the state language - 24.5%.
there are a lot of young people.
G. Abdykalikova in her speech noted that the head of state noted that "over the years of independence, the republic has made an incredible breakthrough in historical development.
if the plan is implemented, then Kazakhstan will indeed be among the economically developed countries, "said A. Gusev.
In total, the event was attended by the heads of diplomatic missions of 43 states.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Afghan side.
preparations for the first phase are under way.
we know the achievements of China in the field of agriculture, we constantly participate in Siana agricultural fairs. changji hui autonomous prefecture has highly developed drip irrigation system .
The company "rifa holding group" is known in the world for the production and sale of special equipment, including in the textile industry.
In addition, the Minister noted that in connection with the strengthening of the role of public control today, the public council can become a full-fledged participant in the formation of policy in many areas of justice.
In general, the proposed amendments will strengthen the competence of the authorized body and provide additional legal guarantees for consumers that contribute to the formation of a socially responsible entrepreneurial environment, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan informed.
I regard early elections to the Majilis of Parliament as an update of the intelligentsia, which will attract young people to power.
Congratulations to all on the holiday of the people. let me bring all my heartfull congratulations on this lovely holiday !
The main thing here is that you speak three languages.
According to the expert, every Kazakhstani should contribute to the implementation of the national plan.
Speaking at the grand opening of the cup, the deputy akim of the region rauan kenzhekhanovich, the executive director of the chess federation of Kazakhstan Irina Grishchenko and the brother of the makhambetov sultanbek makhambetov wished good luck to the participants of the competition.
at the invitation of the Kazakh side, the Chinese delegation monitored the elections to the lower house of the Majilis of parliament. at the invitation of the kazakhstani side the delegation of china has conducted a monitoring of the elections to the lower chamber of the parliament - the majilis .
According to him, in general, by 2020 the creation of the entire existing infrastructure of the capital will be completed.
During the years of cooperation, increased knowledge was organized among the military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan on international humanitarian law and training in military law in higher military educational institutions.	the signed memorandum provides mutual assistance in the enforcement of international humanitarian law in armed conflict and other situations .	0,59
its goal is to bring scientific projects to the level of experimental, pilot, industrial production. it is expected that the participants will be universities that entered the spiid , nazarbayev university and other research institutes .
I think you understand him.
such activities are well established in a number of member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
The subsidized project has a number of projects in the field of transport and warehousing, production industry, agriculture, forestry and fisheries and health care, the report said.
In this regard, Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev instructed the heads of oil companies to use all opportunities to implement the plan.
It should be noted that the servicemen of tank unit 10810 are leaders and the best not only among the armed forces of Kazakhstan, but also among the armies of the countries of the world.
with the opening of the institution in the city will solve the shortage of beds, expand the volume and increase the availability of medical care for children.
Recall that the scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was announced by Order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated April 1, 2011 No. 470.
funds will be allocated through the second level ban.
you have tremendous power and creativity.
During the signing ceremony, the parties exchanged views on the prospects of cooperation at the bilateral level and important issues on the UN agenda.
The state commission includes the committee on aerospace sport, the committee on emergency situations of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other organizations.
we must always be prepared for any situation.
It is worth noting that the conference will discuss issues in which the experience of developing leadership qualities in domestic science of the family, school and other social institutions, as well as the results of research work of the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan will be studied.
Czech citizens are in love with our beautiful nature, our great silk road, our mountains and beautiful artistic places, "he said.
The head of the region thanked everyone who took part in the implementation of this project, and noted that in case of any problems they will contribute as much as possible.
Andrei was a participant in the Japanese war.
It should be noted that JSC "Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan" is a subsidiary of JSC "National managing holding" Baiterek. "
At the same time, the owners of the land are persons who have concluded a contract for the purchase and sale of a land plot, but before the introduction of this law paid at least 50% of its cadastral (estimated) value, purchased with a delay or at a preferential price.
- A week has passed since the head of state decided on early elections to majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
Anshk is one of the important projects, since the Asian region did not unite in such an approach until 1992, "said A. Sadvakasova.
Among these projects, the republican social action "kha - 35 good deed," which influenced the provision of assistance to 20 thousand people.
the most common are cured forms of the disease.
In the future, we plan to create additional jobs.
are Kazakhstanis joining its celebration?
flour is produced in the first and second grades.
among them, in our view, the initiative to renounce nuclear weapons deserves special attention.
organizing agricultural production is not an easy task.
students and schoolchildren tried their space menu.
in addition, K.Kassymov noted the low level of equipment of environmental institutions and local executive bodies with fire equipment and other means, as well as the poor effectiveness of fire posts and free fire formations in villages.
from these Cold War stereotypes.
To date, the construction has been built in accordance with modern requirements: there is a parking lot and a playground on the territory.
today about 3,600 people are employed here.
Also, the archimedes of muhambetov noted the project of a new inter-regional cooperation to create a meat cluster.
It will supplement the celebration of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan, which will be held on May 1.
priority for admission should be given to residents of the region and residents of remote areas.
in the middle east, terrorism had no links to Islam.
T. Okhlopkova noted that the Central Election Commission and territorial election commissions are trying to respond as quickly as possible to all appeals of participants in the electoral process related to the campaign.
the physical coal production index was 93.7%.
Pavlodar region is a region rich in natural resources.
I want to thank veterans for this.
therefore, each strategic decision is necessarily fruitful.
in the course of the industrial and scientific process there is a shortage of technical specialists and working professions.
The European Union is the main trading and investment partner of Kazakhstan.
such workers are trained only in technical vocational education.
in the industrial zone where the plant is located, the necessary infrastructure and necessary communications for the enterprise are involved.
to reflect the global crisis, Parliament decided to hold early elections.
this organization plans to develop effectively to member states agriculture, rural areas, food security and biotechnology.
In general, cycling is growing in the country today.
Some 130 million services were delivered through e-government infrastructure throughout the period.
The head of the region A. Batalov noted that entrepreneurs will be created all the conditions without any bureaucratic barriers.
the state provides large amounts of benefits and payments.
It should be noted that the main specialization of the Kirov plant is the design, development of marine underwater weapons, railway rolling stock, as well as the production of civilian products and high-tech products for the needs of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
it is impossible to reach kindergartens of all waiting lists.
Recall, on January 13, proposals were made to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on early parliamentary elections and on holding maslikhats at all levels.
the main goal is to join the Idu Investment Council
thus a full-cycle meat cluster will be organized, in the future processed meat products will be exported.
very high demand, qualification, the ability to make decisions in a difficult moment, that is, to deliver passengers and cargo to a safe destination.
according to the audience, they received wide and comprehensive information about the history of Kazakhstan, the culture and traditions of the Kazakh people.
N. Nazarbayev paid great attention to the formation of this university.
The participants of the meeting noted the importance of further strengthening economic ties between the countries in the future, for which both states have enough potential.
The main goal of the commission is to create favorable conditions for the effective functioning of representatives of the business community in the EEO countries.	a separate section is devoted to the role of the eaeu in the international arena , the interaction of the union with the third countries and international organizations .	0,60
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the country is a modern and safe common shanyrak, in which all the conditions for comfortable living of more than 100 ethnic groups and 17 denominations are created.	the president also noted that he instructed to establish new productions , develop small and medium-sized business in west kazakhstan region .	0,60
At the same time, it is worth noting the correctness of the elections, which were held by combining meetings and maslikhats at all levels.	the correct combination of election campaigns in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels should be noted also .	0,60
In 2016, 22 people were served.	services from regional chambers of entrepreneurs : in 2015 - 2547 services in 2016 - 152 services .	0,60
this step involves the establishment of a further effective political system based on a long-term perspective.	the decree is aimed at more effective political system .	0,60
The heroes of the legend blessed evil fathers and desperate children, many congratulated them on the holiday.	they blessed the children and uttered good wishes , the character of kazakh folklore aldar-kose congratulated all of them .	0,60
Despite the change in weather conditions, the city should be ready for any load on utilities and road services.	despite the changes in the weather , the city should be ready for any burden on communal and road services .	0,60
at this meeting, special attention is paid to complaints, appeals, "said an international observer.
Today, the Governor of the region, having visited to get acquainted with the work of the center, noted that the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev will provide all the support for the health of the mother and child.
In his opinion, the market of Islamic finance in Kazakhstan is not sufficiently developed, and the creation of a joint entrepreneur or strategic alliance with local financial institutions and foreign investors may be an occasion for obtaining banking products and expanding their knowledge.
Following the results of the seminar, the participants highly appreciated the initiative of Kazakhstan on the advisability of cooperation with the foreign ministries of African countries.
If we consider the socio-economic development of the Sarysu region, then, led by Eurochem-Karatau, a railway will be opened along the innovative-Turkestan route.
Recall that Aruzhan saved three of his brothers from a fire on February 11.
the bill will be considered at an expanded meeting of the upper house.
In accordance with the agreement, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide Kazakhstan with a loan of $100 million to finance a project to develop labor skills and stimulate jobs.
after that, the campaign train leaves for the city of Balkhash.
the family lives in the village of Coxu Shardarin district.
The President in his article reports that the future of a united nation is the main goal of the country, the exact meaning of the five institutional reforms. the president outlined the key message - the nation of the common future .
As previously reported, about 700 observers from ecu and CIS countries control the course of meetings and elections of deputies of maslikhats at all levels.
therefore, all foreign observers and representatives of the garden can be accredited to the elections in March according to the procedure approved by law.
- Baymakhanov galina alexandrovna, deputy of the majilis of the parliament of the V convocation
information on money legalization is not posted on their Internet pages.
To increase the level of training for projects of the state program of industrial and innovative development (miidb).
also works at the plant "young, purposeful, educated labor force."
and during a meeting with the President of the Afghan National Assembly, Abdullah Rauf Ibrahim was the subject of a conversation on the establishment of peace and stability in that country.
funds will be transferred through second-tier banks.
parliamentary elections should be held ahead of schedule in order to withstand and mobilize our internal resources and clearly prepare for the implementation of five reforms, "said A. Sadvakasova.
e. and. Tarasenko stressed the importance of adhering to the principles of an integrated gender approach in politics and issues of local self-government.
Where is the country thriving so far, where tank tracks and shell explosions will be destroyed?
in his welcoming speech, he voiced the goals and objectives of the assembly and their results.
Nurtai Abykayuly with the assumption of a deputy position.
May our independence be the prosperity of our country!
The facility is expected to be commissioned next month.
The club has an area of ​ ​ 450 square meters, a courtyard club built under the kick program is located on the 1st floor of the housing estate and in the basement, "the statement said.
the route of the line "from" of the Kazakh-Chinese main gas pipeline passes through the territory of the South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Almaty regions in the same technical corridor with networks "a" and "c," that is, gas extraction is provided for consumers of these zones.
the essence of the geopolitical situation is that it is legal if there is at least one large military bloc, then its antipode is created.
The event was attended by representatives of sectoral authorized ministries and departments, social insurance funds of the eurozone countries, representatives of justice.
in addition, he informed about the theses set forth in the annual Address of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
entrepreneurs who received funds under this program can also use the guarantees of the fund if there are insufficient pledges to the bank.
- Today it is often said that Kazakhstanis should learn to live in a new way.
the new parliament and maslikhats of all levels should legislate for the implementation of the crisis strategy.
Last week, the 15th meeting of the joint intergovernmental commission on bilateral cooperation was held. azerbaijan is a strategic partner for kazakhstan in the caucasus region .
cost question - marketing path.
Permanent coordinating and consultative and advisory body of the business community of the State Union.
as a result of this collaboration, one record can be used with the services of the post office and e-government.
there was also an exchange of views on the situation in southeastern Ukraine.
The law regulates temporary work activities of citizens of two countries on the basis of a work permit in the framework of corporate transfers.
in particular, the former Federal Chancellor of Austria A. Guzenbauer noted that the reforms implemented by Kazakhstan are a timely response to new global challenges and will allow our republic to take a place in the club of the most developed countries.
and also ensures equal opportunities, places personal responsibility of citizens on the future of the country and the development of society, "the expert said.
As for the chemical industry, we have large reserves of potassium, "said B. Saparbayev.
now at the meeting we need new ideological specialists.
the company also has an aviation training center that offers theoretical and practical training at the highest level of training.
Such testing centers should be open to increase the level of knowledge of jasnskin and continuous self-sacrifice. such institutions should be opened everywhere that the knowledge level of our young generation grows inexorably .
therefore, I do not exclude that in the future Kazakhstan, together with a strong parliament, will move to a parliamentary-presidential system of government, in which a transparent and accountable government operates.
We are now organizing a rabbit association led by us.
their exploits will be appreciated by the state.
According to the expert, the implementation of the program will also stimulate the development of financial institutions and management standards.
the share of kindergartens with the Kazakh language of instruction is 70%, general education schools - 64%.
half of the public administration is women.
Since 2012, new technologies for space monitoring of emergency situations, agricultural production, and the environmental situation of the regions of Kazakhstan have been developed and introduced.
Following the meeting, a close connection was agreed with the British side in the interests of both parties.
It was attended by representatives of 56 member countries, including more than 30 heads of State and Government.
currently, producers of sour milk, meat, fish, confectionery, as well as fruit and vegetable products of the East Kazakhstan region represent more than 100 types of goods.
in addition, the products of the company "Pretel" were presented at many competitions and exhibitions in prize places.
During the work, conditions can be created for additional measures at the initiative of deputies, which can be included in the plan by decision of the chamber's bureau, he said.
voluntary self-regulation acts together with state regulation, establishes a procedure that exceeds the requirements established by law for subjects of self-regulation and their activities.
all goods and services are represented by national quality signs "made in Kazakhstan" and "people's brand."
Refusal to vaccinate can cause a hotbed of disease, increasing the number of people exposed to the epidemic.
Therefore, we chose a shadow, "said A. Tengebaev.
A total of 64 memoranda were signed.
therefore, it is necessary to improve these places.
The purpose of the event organized by the Academy is to develop the analytical competencies of civil servants of Kazakhstan.
The 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 20th anniversary of the constitution, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan.
Kazakh engineering management, as well as heads of subsidiaries held more than 40 meetings with representatives of the military-industrial complex and leading manufacturers of weapons and military equipment of foreign countries.
in turn, this will allow you to find out the number of really employed for each educational institution.
yesterday we saw good preparation of the technical commission.
this is primarily support for social wards, which is also targeted.
at the same time, an effective method was used, with the mind of the population it is possible to attract a large number of investors in projects.
privatization of such a large holding as samruk-kazyna, baiterek and kazagro takes place openly and competitively on the basis of a decent market price.
the agreements reached by us, the exchange of views, I am sure, will contribute to the deepening of our cooperation in all areas under discussion. i am confident this agreement to contribute to the deepening of cooperation in all spheres .
In order to develop the draft Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget and customs regulation (tax and customs code), a working group was established in the Ministry of National Economy, which included representatives of State bodies, the Atameken NPP, NGOs and business organizations.
of which 1 036.0 tenge of budget revenues make up the republican budget, 326.7 million tenge - transferred funds to the budget.
According to the chairman of the Senate, a solid basis for this is the agreement on good-neighbourliness and alliance of the XXI century, signed by the heads of state n.a. Nazarbayev. and Vladimir Putin and ratified by the parliaments of the two countries.
The Kazakh diplomat also introduced the participants to the important foreign policy initiatives of Kazakhstan for 2015, which the head of state called during the 70th anniversary session of the UN General Assembly in New York.
financial stability will be covered by comprehensive measures and the implementation of measures of the national bank.
these elections are a necessary measure aimed at implementing the plan to join our nation among the thirty developed countries.
to conquer the elbrus of one of the highest peaks of the planet, located at an altitude of 5,642 meters above sea level, in the fight against strong military climbers of other countries, military personnel work out such elements as jerking in the fall, crossing mountain rivers, crossing the rope and transferring the wounded in the mountainous area.
The Kazakh Association in Europe has 7 thousand people.
Before 12-00, the turnout of citizens was 40%, until eight in the evening this figure will double.
According to the Governor's Office, this project will contribute to an increase in crops in all sectors of agriculture.
they have repeatedly proved their professional readiness in tank biathlon, competitions between crews in tank driving and precision shooting, mounted on tanks of main and additional weapons among different countries of the world.
in addition, a transport control service (kbk) has been established to monitor public transport.
Today, groups that have preserved traditions will gather on this day, light a large fire and will not see until sunrise.
Kazakh delegation was headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Askar Musinov, and Algerians - Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the socio-political life of the two countries, taking into account the ethno-confessional diversity of Kazakhstan and Malaysia.
According to S. Rakhimbekova, unemployed women in the village can take a kindergarten, produce organic plant products and arrange small greenhouses.
products produced by Kazakhstani factories meet modern tactical and technical characteristics and include innovative technologies of private development.
Procedures for changing the terms of the employment contract were simplified by law, measures were envisaged to introduce a system of self-government in labor collectives, a mechanism for collective bargaining between workers and employers.
Intensify cooperation with universities to form a pool of young specialists with the necessary professional potential to work in the prosecutor's office.
1700 km of railways were built.
It is worth noting that today March 20 at a meeting and elections to maslikhats of all levels there is a dispute.
From the point of view of holding the international exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital, we are interested in advanced Israeli technologies and innovations in the field of alternative energy.
An important step in this direction has already been taken.
these priorities are mentioned in the national plan.
this day is the founding day of the Nur Otan party and a day of gratitude with my special decree.
it is an oil and gas, innovation and agricultural industry.
gani sadibekov graduated from the Faculty of Economics of the Kazakh Academy of Public Administration, as well as the Faculty of Law of the Kyrgyz State University.
during the vote, the participants unanimously supported Yesidykov's candidacy.
Kazakhstan can implement major domestic economic decisions through participation in WTO.
there were many meetings between the two countries.
The act has completely undergone changes.
Ecu observers are governed by an election observation instruction.
Now the maslikhat has public advice.
every reward is a great work of our state.
Kazakhstani women have long been ready for fishing and show passion. kazakhstani women are ready to do business .
During the meeting, Zhasanov reported to the head of state on the existing and promising plans of the prosecutor's office, as well as on the state of law and order in the country.
based on medicine and entrepreneurship, works in the public service and private and national companies.
the owner of the object for a long time could not legalize it.
On behalf of the akim of the region, the key to the minibus was handed to the kindergarten.
the exporter of works organized with the support of the regional department of agriculture is Kayyp Ata.
high-quality agricultural products - today is in demand.
The new type of service will contribute to improving the service of citizens with disabilities.
then these specialties return with new knowledge.
therefore, no outreach should be undertaken.
To radically solve this problem, funds will be raised in the region for the construction of a special plant with the introduction of new technologies.
here children and schoolchildren are engaged in free tennis and table tennis.
amendments will be made to the environmental and tax codes, as well as to the code on administrative offenses.
and work is aimed at creating an expanded social dialogue.
The role of trade unions has been expanded to protect the rights and interests of workers, including taking into account the opportunities provided for in the recently adopted Trade Unions Act.
In view of the specific needs of certain groups of our citizens, it is necessary to review the structures of the minimum standard of living and establish its various levels.
the bill will be considered at an expanded meeting of the upper house.
ladders of three sports facilities - domestic construction companies.
timely implementation of the National Plan will allow Kazakhstan to fulfill its dreams.
the plant is planned to be included in the 2nd half of this year.
we must unite the efforts of all countries for the future of our children in order to save the ultimate world from the threat of nuclear war.	we must combine the efforts of governments , politicians , scientists , entrepreneurs , artists , and millions of people around the world in order to prevent a repetition of tragic mistakes of past centuries and spare the world from the threat of a war ,  the president told .
It is worth noting that in the framework of cooperation with Egypt, more than 40 bilateral agreements have been signed.
It is very important for us that the people immediately understand and understand, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is a very important tool in the face of a global crisis, "said N.Cherednik.
The work on the implementation of the trial project is aimed at identifying the positive and negative aspects of the audit marking of goods produced or introduced in the territory of the sea, and at conducting the corresponding analysis in the future.
a total of 153 permits, or 39 per cent of total permits, have been reduced.
my family is like a small copy of kha.
implementation of projects will create 4.5 thousand jobs.
I am grateful for your support in this direction.
civil control is the most reliable barrier to corruption for confused and negligent officials.
326 people were awarded diplomas of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the discussion, it was noted that in part 574 of paragraph 5, it is necessary to supplement the tax code so that large institutions can sell petroleum products to small and medium-sized businesses.
We appreciate the mission of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in 2015. the president pays particular attention to the relationship with the un .
According to the Director of the Employment Center of Astana Governor's Office, the holding of the job fair is of particular importance at the bus station.
in the acord, the heads of state discussed the development of mutual cooperation, as a result of which a number of documents were signed.
these funds will be allocated through second-tier banks.
The most important stage of the city's development is the holding of the Expo 2017 exhibition, which we won within 160 countries.
More than 10 thousand military personnel and more than 100 units of modern weapons and military equipment took part in a military parade in Moscow.
Governor of the region noted that in cultural institutions work is underway to strengthen the material and technical base, the condition of employees is improving.
By decision of the congress, the Nur Otan party election campaign program will be adopted.
a woman always needs help to start her business. as of today , in kazakhstan there are about 1 million 656 thousand business managers .
will also contribute to the recognition of the capital as a financial center.
independent judicial justice and the Kazakh law enforcement system should be aimed exclusively at the realization of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the clear implementation of laws and the strengthening of the rule of law.
Vladimir Putin reiterated the situation by the Turkish side and stated that Turkey should take a step to rectify the situation.
In addition, prompt decision-making, institutional renewal, coordinated activities by government agencies are required, "the report said.
it's cheese and sour cream.
at the same time, I mean the oil sector.
the company is building the first stage of the mining complex in the city of Zhanatas.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues related to the state and prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union was discussed, as well as an exchange of views of the Secretary of State and the head of the European Union mission in Kazakhstan on topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
during these critical hours, you have a lot of responsibility.
The Head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Astana, Major General of the Amantai Aubakirov Police, noted that in accordance with the messages and instructions of the Head of State, specific tasks and requirements for personnel were set to increase public confidence in the police, ensure transparency and fairness of the police service, and prevent violations of the law.
joint partnership in many sectors of our countries "economy will make it possible to achieve mutually beneficial cooperation, the Governor of the region noted.
The new China-Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway line has a high transport potential for the competitiveness of the route and improving container transport services.
Including, your work is very large and large.	this year , we have launched the third astronaut into the space , we have become the members of the wto .	0,60
it, in turn, facilitates the opening of the commission and ensures mutual benefit and equality.	the commission cooperates with the business community of the eaeu member states in such formats as advisory committees and working groups .	0,60
It should be noted that during the year of the Assembly, within the framework of the action "ha - 20 good deeds," 90 thousand people received assistance in the amount of 5 billion 623 million 911 thousand tenge.
The first graduates who graduated from Nazarbayev University in 2015 are currently distinguished by high professional knowledge, demonstrate high demand for professions, a high level of efficiency and preparation of the educational process, and a significant quality of education.
under the agreement, khkdb will provide our country with a loan of one billion kum to finance the Republican budget deficit.
the dead servicemen were sworn to the Fatherland and showed courage on the way to the security of the country.
according to him, the price of neighboring Russia also affects the volume of production.
then veteran S. Imangaliyeva replies that for 25 years of independence between the countries of all Asia, for 20 years of existence, Kazakhstan has never subjected peace and harmony, peace and trust of society.
The construction of the remaining 3 hectares is planned to be completed in 2016, district centers will be developed - the city of kentau, the city of Turkestan, the second stage, the settlement of shauldir of the Otyrar district, the settlement of temirlan of the Ordabassinsky district and the bottom of the gasification of Lviv cities.
Today, Kazakhstan has the most modern gas transmission system in Central Asia, and we are becoming a big player in the field of gas transit in Central Asia.	this is the best way to reduce emissions and combat climate change ,  - said the ebrd president suma chakrabarti at a press briefing in astana .
the second stage: land on long-term leases will receive benefits for the acquisition of these land plots.
millions of refugees, the destruction of cities, the destruction of valuable historical monuments - all this is becoming commonplace.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Russian side.
EXPO-2017 "green" energy will become a platform for showing the best achievements of mankind and will contribute to the rational use of energy resources.
to be prepared for all conditions, an updated, experienced parliament is needed, and they will take a new view of the economic situation that is happening both in Kazakhstan and in the world.
we are now restructuring in connection with the change of the main body of the space industry.
this is an economic issue.
One of the promising areas is the infrastructure projects of the government with the participation of Kazakhstani contractors.
We have ensured the commitment of the sovereignty of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the professional and thorough action of the State apparatus, which serves as a solid basis for the constitution and laws and the interests of the people.
During the reporting period, 8 million 370 thousand tenge were used by the regional training center for civil servants.
According to B. Zhaparov, about 130 copies of these documents are first presented here.
Aktobe Oil Equipment Plant is one of the country's specialized machine-building enterprises for the production of complex equipment for the oil field.
the discussion consisted of 3 rounds.
deputies were fully sympathetic to this decision.
under the chairmanship of the head of state, our country is flourishing.
we came to a period when the West predicted what could be between Sunnis and Shiites.
It is worth noting that the projects implemented by the participants of the dialogue will make it possible to form an economic belt of the silk road.
aa. Idrissov noted that the parties are faced with the task of carrying out large-scale organizational work on the qualitative presentation of these measures.
but we did not find a constitutional norm.
The first part of the seminar was opened by a Karaganda woman who identified the main business of women in the village.
now in places accessible to citizens, separate mailboxes are installed for incoming applications to advisory and advisory bodies.
every leader, every people, if you look at the past.
For more than twenty years, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has proved its worth through the carefree work of each member of the assembly. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , its every member has been working hard .
summing up, the head of state in the message of Nursultan Nazarbayev on November 30, 2015 pointed to all aspects of Kazakhstan's policy and the global economic situation and pointed to measures to overcome the situation.
Introduction of a corporate management model in health facilities.
In this regard, N. Abdirov familiarized the guests with Kazakhstan and the policies of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
A month-long sport dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the daily development of the Republic of Kazakhstan started in Akmola region.
The rg brands plan provides for an increase in the share of exports by 25%, an increase in the coverage of sales geography by 60 million people.
its main goal is to improve mechanisms for accessibility of facilities and services in all areas of life of persons with disabilities.
the role of the protagonist was played by a strong aitzhan actor.
it will not be easy for the organizers of the elections.
According to him, the proposal of the deputies to hold early elections at the meeting indicates that Kazakhstan is undergoing a permanent change after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Universiade is, first of all, a social project that gives impetus to the development of mass sports in the city, provides citizens with jobs. we have already sent invitations to foreign national federations of student 's sport - the members of the fisu .
In turn, foreign guests noted a lot of experience in the technical field, agriculture and trade.
"How long has this been done?"
confidentiality and protection against prosecution.
station buildings will be equipped with special toilet rooms, parking for people with disabilities on the square in front of the stations.
During the conversation with the leaders of the two countries, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed condolences on the death of ordinary people and military personnel during the recent incident in the Nagorno-Karabakh zone.
In 2016, Kazakhstan celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.
I am pleased with your knowledge, the mastery of foreign languages, the desire to be open to innovation.
the rural party will make a great contribution to the preservation and development of national traditions.
To fulfill functional duties, trained specialists are needed, "said Colonel Amantai Userbayev, Deputy Head of the Department of Organizational and Mobilization Work of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The next 5 years of development have determined our destiny.
not to distinguish us from this unit at any time.
thereby receiving a low percentage subsidy from the State.
The Speaker of the Majilis noted that Kazakhstan and Poland are transit states, and stressed that it is necessary to widely use this opportunity to increase the volume of supplies of goods in the direction of Western Europe and Asia.
Following the negotiations, a number of documents were signed.
the bill approved by the Majilis is sent to the Senate of Parliament.
applicants should be specialists with strategic thinking.
We present at the Expo "Madame Butterfly," now we are negotiating on this issue "Our Lady of Paris Cathedral."
Dossayev noted that in the country all the issues indicated in the anti-crisis plan will be fulfilled under the item.
The previous convocation of parliament did a great job.
in matters of the course of combat training, the organization of combat duty, the state of weapons and military equipment, order and the moral and psychological state of military units.
this is an extreme question!
one for telecommunications and the other for remote sensing.
The speech began with the sympathy of the Bulgarian people for the catastrophic situation in Aktobe and continued with a story about the need to jointly counter terrorism.
this decision, of course, was not easy, but yielded results from an economic and political point of view.
Given that today the young entrepreneur provides permanent employment for 6 citizens, and during the implementation of the new project 2 more jobs will be created.
in addition, we switched to Western observers.
members of the committee may be members of the international Olympic committee, a member of the IOC - members of the national federation for Olympic sports and two representatives of the commission of athletes - one man and one woman. "
the fourth reform of the nation's plan - unity and identity. "
sergeants undergo verification and a psychological test for mandatory knowledge of regulatory legal acts.
According to the head of the region, the industrialization map provided significant support to the region's industry.
I think that in the new composition of parliament there should be people who know the economy and production, agriculture and the economy. as you know , the world experiences the economic crisis .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that during the years of independence, all the necessary conditions for business development have been created in the country.
As the head of state said, this is a real test crop.
It's nice what we're seeing right now.
in the document - the effective implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the promotion of the 100 Concrete Steps national plan and the presidential program "Nұrly zhol," the interaction of the kha deputy corps and the nur otan party faction in parliament; organization of expert and discussion platforms; partnership based on kha friendship houses and public reception parties; joint implementation of socially significant projects and charity based on kha.
Including in the framework of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020" 2 60-apartment residential buildings will be built.
currently counting votes.
we have gone the honest way of independence for almost a quarter of a century. i take the initiative of the deputies as the manifestation of the patriotic concern about the fate of kazakhstan .
Recall that the opening of the exhibition will take place today at 15.00 at the National Museum of Kazakhstan.
3 main and 1 reserve calculation were selected to participate in the competition.
The main purpose of this event is to fully explain the procedure for occupying vacant administrative state posts in the local executive bodies of the region and to promote the values ​ ​ of the public service, as well as to familiarize themselves with the opportunities provided by the state service to every citizen who has shown his qualifications and ability, patriotism and hard work.
the plant will be located in Osakar district of Karaganda region.
it is necessary to strengthen stability, Kazakhstani identity and unity through further improvement and implementation of legislation, to consolidate in the public consciousness the national patriotic idea "Eternal Country."
We officially announce an appeal to the people of Kazakhstan and the president of the country. now , when there is a new period of history , we are starting a large-scale modernization of the country and implementation in all areas of the presidential reforms , we cannot wait until the end of 2016 .
in our opinion, the project will contribute to the successful implementation of the tasks in force in the legislation.
The Italian side at the meeting noted that Kazakhstan has great opportunities for the development of the food industry.
According to him, for the population, firstly, it is important to consolidate the Kazakh society in all respects and support the reforms and directions of the leader of the nation of the president of our country, strengthening domestic political stability.
In the future, the entrepreneur intends to export camel milk in powder together with Chinese entrepreneurs.
G. Isimbayeva for some time was a deputy of the Majilis of parliament.
and identifies priority areas for training.
products meet all requirements and state standards of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the director of the branch, through participation in the State Enterprise "BZH- 2020" entrepreneurs are provided with financial or non-financial support.
Currently, the construction of a new facility is underway.
the first, second rounds were held in two rounds.
they are also entitled to land leases.
protocol on the extension of the agreement on the creation of a single system of technical cover for the railways of the member states of the senators' convention; Agreement on cooperation between NATO member States in the transport of military and other formations, their movable equipment and military products; Ratification of the intergovernmental agreement between Kazakhstan and Austria on international road transport of goods.
it takes 5 to 8 years to find good and large deposits, "he said.
A feature of the portal is that 100 specific steps are located in one place, "says the Scholak gendos, managing director of Kazkontent.
i. the Fayed accepted the invitation with gratitude and confirmed that he would take part in the upcoming events and join the Egyptian akiu.
such assistance will be provided to families with incomes below 50 per cent of the subsistence minimum for each family member.
today's generation seeks sacred independence and contributes to the achievement of a prosperous state.
At the same time, countries belonging to the EU and the Russian Federation over the years have progressively increased production volumes.
We remind that early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels will be held on March 20.
In turn, S. Abdikarimov noted that despite the global financial and economic crisis, Kazakhstan is implementing projects "Nұr zhol, the National Plan" 100 concrete steps in the implementation of five institutional reforms. "
Also today are the regular elections of deputies of the maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the document defines a clear position of Kazakhstan on topical topics representing the interests of all mankind.
the situation in different regions does not save us.
telemedicine appears with access to the Internet.
Currently, schools in the country are divided into three types.
I have great confidence in them.
they are not inferior in quality to foreign producers.
At the same time, a number of audited institutions were warned about the appearance of state symbols, the appearance of state symbols turned out to be dirty, worn out.
the picture depicts a poet in a national hat with a dombra on his hands, a dark brown hat on his head.
This center employs specialists who travel to Israel and improve their skills.
According to the general forecast, in 2020 the population of the agglomeration will reach 645 thousand people, and in 2030 - one million.
The bill was approved during the meeting.
reinvestment is the investment of an existing investor, that is, the investment of income received during the course of its activities in the implementation of a new project. there is a new direction - reinvesting .
In conclusion, the head of state set a number of tasks.
At the meeting, it was noted that the issue of compliance with military security in the UN area of ​ ​ responsibility is important.
in addition, the protocol provides for the clarification of the powers of the justice authorities on the creation of an interstate working group, as well as the updating of references to existing agreements within the framework of permission.
It should be noted that in specialized PSCs there is a distribution of duties: the PSCs are engaged in the reception of documents and the issuance of finished documents, and the employees of the department participate in the process of producing driver's licenses and vehicle registration certificates.
The implementation of the axko project will attract additional significant financial resources to the country's economy and turn the domestic financial sector into a competitive industry that exports services and contributes to the increase in the country's gross domestic product.
The national plan "One hundred concrete steps" for the implementation of five institutional reforms of Nazarbayev provides for a change in the concept of the work of the antimonopoly service and bringing it into line with eidu standards (step 53).
The current state of relations between Russia and Ukraine and the continuation of the implementation of the Minsk agreements were also considered.
The international transport corridor and the reconstruction of roads of national importance will increase transport potential in the region and in the future reduce the time for transporting goods from China to the Russian Federation and European states by 1.5-2 times.
The observer also praised the elections held in Kazakhstan, noting that they were held openly and fairly.
we have all the tools to achieve an increase in the socio-economic indicators of the region related to the execution of the order of the head of state.
This is constantly stated by the head of state, chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In the implementation of all the tasks set in the message to the people of Kazakhstan, I devote a special place to the Nұr Otan party.
3,335 deputies of maslikhats of all levels are elected to local authorities, of which 550 are elected to the regional, 625 to the city and 2160 to the district maslikhats.
the current composition of the meeting fulfilled its historic mission.
all our goals have been achieved, the personnel are ready to fulfill the tasks set (provision to UN peacekeeping missions).
During the meeting, B. Saparbayev noted that special measures are being taken in Aktobe region to form a favorable investment climate.
today I signed a decree on the early termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the fifth convocation.
it is due to the appeal of many citizens, labor collectives, wide scientific and public art, "said M. Neubaev.
This project is based on a partnership between Kazakstan Temir Zholy and the French company Alstom.
More than 600 young patients under the quota were sent to the capital and Almaty medical centers to receive free medical care, "said the children's pulmonologist Narizalieva.
currently 170 people work at the facility.
Acting Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ruslan Sultanov noted the role of Spanish investments in Kazakhstan.
A competition was also announced for the construction of a children's hospital in the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk, a multidisciplinary and semipalatinsk.
previously, the rural population did not have such opportunities.
English teachers are taught by people from Europe.
its distinctive feature is that it is equipped with a modern artillery device, a remotely controlled combat module, radio-technical weapons that significantly increase the range of tasks to be solved.
According to ESCAP, policies to increase productivity and, in this regard, increase wages will cover the domestic needs of these countries and improve the lives of the population, "he said.
initiators are Kazakhstani a1 and idea-lab.kz companies, companies e27singapuru.
The Secretary General noted that holding an exhibition in the capital will contribute to strengthening the technological flow and scientific base, which will increase Kazakhstan's authority in the international arena.
According to forecasts of investment banks and experts, at the end of the year oil prices may be raised, while its price may drop to $20.
As the chairman of the committee noted, the current task is not to stop investing foreign investments in the manufacturing industry.
at this time, the applicant is familiar with many aspects of the judicial sphere and faces many problems in practice.
this will increase the share of the commodity exchange in the agricultural industry.
I want to note the advantage of LED lamps, which are looking for work in a long time, environmentally safe, mechanical.
I appeal to all citizens of Kazakhstan - in our country the preservation of calm and stability is ensured.
in the first reading, it is proposed to consider a bill on amendments to the reduction of permits and the simplification of permitting procedures.
if possible, they will participate in district and rural events, this year the team takes third place, wrestlers from the Germans of the region will participate in the competition.
In addition, on the same day, the Central Election Commission adopted a decision on March 16, 2016 on the Khabar TV channel to hold debates of political parties participating in the elections, and approved the rules for its conduct.
the image of the American consul Sharples on the stage depicts honored figures of Kazakhstan sundet the baigozhin and talgat musabaev.
many experts believe that Kazakhstan can avoid an interethnic conflict and a deep economic crisis.
2 . the literacy rate of the population of the country (average number of years spent on education) and the estimated duration of education.
the head of the department of international sports union programs at British universities and colleges nil rogers spoke about the training of athletes.
in the end he was forced to seek help from the chamber.
Further, the Majilis deputy emphasized that the topic of "cooperation of Turkic-speaking countries in the context of disasters and the fight against the crisis," which became the subject of the commission meeting, is of particular importance in the conditions of tense world instability, when the global crisis is in a tense response.
In turn, the general director of the autonomous cluster fund "Park of Innovative Technologies" Sanzhar Kettebekov noted that at the initial stage, a model of production work on the line of the enrichment plant will be installed in the center.
Thus, the businessman shared his experience and taught schoolchildren modern methods that help to choose the right profession.
Issues of implementation of tourist packages at Expo 2017 and promotion of tourism potential of Kazakhstan in Scandinavian countries were discussed during a meeting with the managing director of the Swedish Agency for Major Travel orientours.
Today, Kazakhstan is an eternal country of the great steppe.
As the expert noted, a few years ago, President Nursultan Nazarbayev warned about the onset of test time.
Compared to January-March 2015, the number of dead children under the age of 1 year increased by 22%.
According to him, the Kazakh leader pointed to the need to prevent a nuclear catastrophe that may occur in the future, and suggested the safety of this global problem and how to act.
However, the management of the region expressed concern about the decline in production.
the region is open to all investors interested in mutually beneficial cooperation, the head of the region said at a meeting with the Chinese company "china sinogy electric engineering co., ltd" (cseec).
Therefore, we specially trained specialists for the arrived doctors so that we can show sick people who are not diagnosed.
In order to optimize licensing procedures in the construction industry, the principle of three-stage obtaining of permits in the construction industry is introduced.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations is carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016.
a unified approach will make it possible to compare cities with each other.
The event was attended by representatives of more than 150 Chinese companies.
It should be noted that the new law enforcement structure will be created from officers working in various police units.
According to the expert, the implementation of anti-crisis measures, the implementation of large-scale modernization in the country require the immediate responsibility of state bodies and civil society.
Bees are very active in South Kazakhstan region, this year more than 100 girls came to the qualifying stage from this region.
this has enabled the UK to implement flexible project management and evaluation systems as soon as possible.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also instructed to ensure respect for the rule of law during the preparation and conduct of elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats at all levels.
your country leads all the main bodies of the economic union, which means that in 2016 Kazakhstan will play a leading role in the further development of economic integration.
today there are 13 ethnic and cultural associations of Poles involved in issues of national and cultural modernization.
this will provide energy to the Karaganda region.
The main goal of the sudden inspection is to assess the coordinated activities of military units and their formations in the threat of emergency situations, terrorist attacks, and to fulfill tasks in the water and mountain territory.
conditions for their participation in cultural, sporting, leisure and leisure activities.
we must prepare for this first and foremost through education.
about a hundred projects will be selected for this.
some countries had been dependent on terrorism for several years.
The regional support center, which monitors elections in East Kazakhstan region, is a public internal audit on compliance with electoral legislation.
In addition, at the meeting, the head of the region instructed to intensify work to clarify the Address of the Head of State and bring it to the end.
The State Youth Policy Act.
the most interesting Christmas is called the crust.
In this regard, a special creative commission has been created.
According to I.K. Ayyrbekova, in the capital you can get free consultations on a number of types of services: on types of state support, on accounting and tax accounting, on legal issues during the project, on marketing and processing business plans, on the services of public service centers.
This year it is planned to complete the construction work, after which a meaningful replenishment of the exhibition facilities will begin.
at the entrance to the main building there is a video surveillance room.
a fireplace hall for the former residence of the President is also open.
He noted that the released budget funds were sent to the probation service as a pilot electronic bracelet.
The purpose of the exhibition is to show through archival documents the main stages of strengthening the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the formation of the presidential institute.
I love daily dance evenings.
all this goes against war, violence, disagreement.
I know what my work profession is.
let me thank you on a thank you day. let us thank you .
According to the executive director of the American community for public administration, the signing of the memorandum confirms the start of work.
each leader, within the framework of his competence, should analyze the attitude of society in all areas of reform and make appropriate adjustments in his activities, "K.Masimov emphasized.
enough initiatives.
signing memoranda and agreements.
The opening ceremony was attended by Deputy Governor of the region Saparbek Tuyakbayev and Vice President of Kazakhstan Bezi nelson and Director of the bank's representative office in Kazakhstan genet hackman.
Today, the head of the region Danial Akhmetov held a meeting on the implementation of investment projects through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
small assemblies work effectively in all areas.
Governor of the region congratulated parents on the opening of kindergarten and noted that by the end of the year another facility for 140 children will be opened in the school.
Students of a special correctional boarding school in Astana came to rest in the dream camp.
brick blocks and roofing, the Greek company gmt kazakhstan investments a.e, specializing in the production of ceramic production equipment.
this issue should be the focus of attention of city services, noted during the meeting.
the first bronze medal was won by arina pantova in the form of a biotlon at a distance of 6 kilometers.
marat kusainov, who made a report on the bill on shared participation in housing construction, noted the procedure for shared participation.
In addition, this year it is planned to open 2 yard clubs in the Nur-Aktobe microdistrict and 11 microdistricts, the buildings of which will be redesigned as a yard club and reconstruction of yard clubs.
the time has come to computerize each site.
Japanese outer scales are designed for 8 years, and coconut chips should be changed every three years.
on the contrary, individual performance indicators allow to relieve units from performing unusual functions and make efforts to fulfill direct tasks established by law, "said and. Lepeha.
The deputy also discussed the main aspects of changes and additions to the legislation on industrial and innovation policy.
During the meeting, information was announced on the introduction of norms in the draft Customs Code ee, which provides preliminary information in electronic format and uses it under customs control without indicating any papers or without any other documents on the basis of which it was created.
In this regard, 284 events were held, in which more than 200 thousand people took part.
b.b. improving the quality of work provided to passengers, and pp. a. concrete measures should be taken to implement Nazarbayev's objectives.
including a grant for scientific groups.
the adoption of the bill will not require additional financial costs from the republican budget, will not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences, "said Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kassymov.
The Vice Speaker noted the openness of the Kazakh side in expanding the legal sphere of legislative relations of the participating countries.
Here, starting with the financing plan, introduce competitive events and consume all the necessary equipment.
As Deputy Director General of the Central Research Center Chokan Abdilmanov noted, now it will take at least two hours to receive the document.
The Prosecutor General informed the interlocutor about the organizational measures taken by the prosecutors to ensure the legality of the electoral process, the nature of the complaints received and the results of their resolution.
The documents provided are aimed at strengthening public confidence in public bodies in order to form high religious relations in the public service and prevent cases of unfair behavior of public servants.
the new parties that passed to parliament are the main value of Kazakhstan - stability and understanding in society.
we know about all European and American agreements and negotiations, "the president said.
gradually I moved on to the study of alternative energy sources.
I think that the oilmen of our region appreciate this.
A quarter of a century we have overcome the path on the part of the state.
they work in the formation of a unified, sustainable, tolerant, accountable state, which puts justice before itself, "the head of state said.
today there are no restrictions on banks gaining liquidity.
many manufacturing industries show growth.
the age of the performers did not exceed 35 years.
The Hermitage Day participants included more than three hundred foreign and domestic museum specialists.
secondly, the president handed over to a large audience actions related to five institutional reforms, "he said.
The first meeting of the advisory board of the Kazakh-Hungarian investment fund was held today.	the fund will invest in kazakhstan companies of the agricultural sector and the food industry in the field of processing , storage and logistics .	0,62
As part of this direction, local police officers work.	all criminal offences committed across the country are registered on this portal with a breakdown into regions , cities and districts .	0,62
in total, the exhibition will visit about 5 million times and visit more than two million people	in general , about 5 million are expected to visit the exhibition and more than 2 million visitors .	0,62
The total volume of foreign trade amounted to 3.7 billion US dollars, of which 84% are exports of Aktobe goods and services.	currently , the regional government started cooperation with the embassies of kazakhstan abroad .	0,62
parliament needs people with experience in lawmaking.	the majilis should represent all segments of the population .	0,62
The national bank should keep society and financial institutions informed of its activities.	the national bank should regularly provide the public and financial institutions with full information on its activities .	0,62
According to A. Bashara, it is expected to reduce oil consumption by 40% with the development of alternative energy sources and transport technologies until 2014. taking into account this scenario , the countries having high oil cost , for example kazakhstan , can face the inevitable marketing problems .
military rank of Major General of Aviation: aymbets aidyn sharks, carbenes nurlan jaidarula;
Among other things, he noted that there is a special place for celebrating the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate - the basis of our statehood.
the world has established national libraries in the parliaments of many countries.	at the exhibition of books dedicated to the head of state , majilis vice-speaker vladimir bozhko drew attention to the book  nursultan nazarbayev . biography . "
Over the past 10 years, production in agriculture has increased by 41%, exports - by 59%.
9,845 graduates who graduated by state order from the institution of technical and vocational education in 2014 - 9014 or 91.6%.
this victory was the triumph of popular confidence in your policy of peace and harmony, provided confidence in the future, stability and strengthening of national unity.
The main goal of the program to give metropolitan guides the status of a partner of the city is to improve the quality of services for providing reliable information.
working groups have been set up in each area and will meet in the next three months.
During the conversation, the leaders of Kazakhstan and Russia congratulated each other on the 71st anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
May our contribution to the future preserve the unity of the country, protect our independence, build a path to the future!
According to him, the 34 steps of the National Plan provide for migration to chamber maintenance through a public private partnership.
In addition, as part of the upcoming month of improvement, it is necessary to carry out sanitary cleaning of roadside areas.
the third group is the emergence of high-risk competitive enterprises and export brands for "anchor investors."
among the subjects of major entrepreneurship of the East Kazakhstan region "Ulba Metallurgical Plant" became the best among the subjects of white, medium and small entrepreneurship of the Karaganda region in the nomination for contribution to ecology.
the organization of further combat training, the creation of an effective system of command and control and logistics of troops will also be improved.
The party "Nұr Otan" pays special attention to updating the composition of future deputies.
this is due not only to the quality of youth education, but also to its practical application.
Today, a plant for the production of coca cola, lemonade, kvass and other soft drinks has been created in the capital, "the press service of the department said.
According to the expert, geostrategic trends and security countries of this region have been identified in the Asian region.
According to the results of the working trip, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan Abdykalikova gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies.
after reading, I saw that everything was clear and defined.
in addition, terminological changes are being made.
The legislation also provides for training, that is, once every three years.
the parties also discussed key trends in the development of the energy industry, the main factors contributing to the formation of oil prices, the prospects for the use of new types of energy that replace traditional energy sources.
Having familiarized himself with the activities of the enterprise, akim noted that this is one of the stylized projects implemented in the region as part of the Fiid program.
seventh, one of the main criteria for transparency and accountability of the State is to improve public access to information.
at the expense of the funds received, agricultural producers will have the opportunity to purchase fuel and lubricants, spare parts for the repair of agricultural machinery, mineral fertilizers, plant protection products and timely implement other necessary measures for planting and collecting products.
this is the influence of youth on knowledge of the game and patriotism.
thus, practical exercises improved the skills and skills of personnel of units, including military engineers.
the main causes of the fire are careless handling of fire, violation of the rules for the installation and operation of electrical equipment, violation of the rules for the installation and operation of furnaces, "he said.
the design capacity of all three lines "a," "c" and "c" of the Kazakh-Chinese gas transmission line is 55 billion m3. expanded main gas infrastructure, increased possibilities of transit and export potential.
This year, in connection with the opening of kindergarten, the coverage of children will increase by 64%.
The need for elections arose in connection with the modern socio-economic situation. the need for elections is dictated by the contemporary social and economic realities in the country , due to the influence of the economic crisis in the world .
In addition, citizens were returned about 2.5 billion tenge out of 3 billion tenge paid under the previous rules of the law for the legalization of money.
thus, four video cameras show a passing car from four angles in polyscreen mode.
We also plan to open the production of automated devices for the distribution and regulation of natural gas.
members of parliament, heads of state bodies, prominent state and public figures, as well as holders of the badge "Best Public Servant" were invited to the forum.
the current composition of the meeting fulfilled its historic mission.
May the Easter mood bring you joy and calm.
we have a powerful state that will cope with this, even if some new difficult problems arise.
Introduction of a corporate management model in health facilities.
for us now and in the near future there is no more urgent task. "
due to the growing demand for our products, the volume of production is growing every day. because of the growing demand we need to increase the volume of production .
It is worth noting that the introduction of a multi-storey building increases scientific potential and will improve the quality of training.
in Kazakhstan, the last quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year went quite hard, growth slowed down.
Recently, these norms have often been violated, "the president said.
In connection with the abolition of subsidies for the "hectare," we will provide farmers with loans in less percentage terms.
According to him, the global crisis and the difficult economic situation should teach Kazakhstanis the means of life.
there are many Olympic winners here, and I am sure that during the Universiade you will show only the best sides of your country, and this universiade will become one of the best in the history of the fisu. "
He also noted that the cases included in the compendium contain issues related to the activities of domestic business, including issues of strategic planning, financial design, increasing labor productivity and managing the investment fund, and others.
the exhibition will be presented within a month.
The event will make it possible to establish ties and lay the foundations of interaction between honorary consuls in the central and eastern regions of Europe, and will also contribute to increasing the mobility of the use of the Institute of Dental Consul of Kazakhstan abroad.
anastasia coach - father Yuri Kolesnikov.
the most important for us is the domestic enterprise and production of products.
the Kazakh system of justice and law and order has gained openness and professionalism. kazakhstan 's system of justice and rule of law has acquired a new quality of transparency and professionalism .
According to him, one of the first steps will be the creation of a joint fund that will attract direct investment in the agricultural sector of Kazakhstan.
In addition, this year metropolitan doctors will undergo an internship at the Korean Institute for the Development of the Healthcare Industry, the official website of the capital's akimat reports.
This year it is planned to create 48 new jobs, of which 29 thousand are men, 9.7 thousand are women.
I am in Kazakhstan for the first time.
the railway was involved in the complex.
Within the framework of participation in the discussion, the Kazakh delegation was also engaged in solving the tasks of implementing a package of anti-terrorism initiatives of the head of state, such as approving a single list of terrorist organizations and agreed terminology on combating international terrorism.
To date, negotiations have been held with property suppliers and contracts have been concluded with the Russian company Oralvagonzoit and the Ukrainian company Ukrainayexport, as well as negotiations on concluding agreements with the 140th Repair Plant (Belarus) and Kazimpex LLP.
I think that the roots of the interethnic and interreligious world in Kazakhstan will be deeper and greater, "he said.
thus, common rules have been created for all procedures with the application of the "one window" principle.
therefore, my position is fundamental - the use of the national fund for current costs should be discontinued.
Representatives of the Italian side noted that Kazakhstan's policy in this area is of significant interest in the world and has a great resonance.
The cost of the project is 3.3 million US dollars.
the wealth of these countries is also great, "the head of state emphasized.
holding open days with the invitation of ftisers and other specialists in the republic within the framework of the month; organizing training seminars on prevention and early diagnosis of tuberculosis for medical workers; in health schools, work will continue to prevent behavioural risk factors, promote physical activity and healthy eating, with the aim of strengthening immunity and increasing resistance to microorganisms.
at the enterprise, one of the main specialties is the operator of the sewing mandate.
The Head of State noted that the appeal of the Majilis received that the basis for this initiative was the need for the effective implementation of reforms and state-established anti-crisis measures.
today is independence day - a sacred holiday.
the second reason is that in order to implement the reforms of the head of state, it is necessary to involve the population in economic reforms.
For example, citizens of Kazakhstan who have leased land can purchase agricultural land in private ownership at a preferential price in installments for up to ten years.
Next year Kazakhstan will hold an expo.	the total number of media participated is 185 .	0,62
in their composition more than 3.5 thousand people.	they will include more than 3.5 thousand people .	0,62
is part of Nazarbayev University of Medical Holding. at the initiative of the head of state the medical holding was created in 2008 .
The President of Russia thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his visit to Moscow to participate in the parade dedicated to the 71st anniversary of the victory in the Great Patriotic War.
Guests who arrived at the head of state's library presented dishes for astronauts, postage stamps depicting aymbets, a book about the astronaut talgat musabayev in three languages.
Employees of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan "National Center for Space Research and Technology" White Ionosphere Institute "- young scientists are invited to this event. Toishiev, eh. Mamontova, e.m. akbergens.
Not everything should be placed in power.
Currently, a fourth package of legislative amendments is being formed.
its main goal is to increase the integration process in the EAEU, to develop a common position on topical issues of economic cooperation.
a four-story building of a modern type will be built at the expense of the regional budget and replaced by a two-story old school.
here you just need to think and start first with yourself.
a code of ethics for judges was being drawn up, citizens could appeal against the actions of judges to the judicial jury.
diamond-taldykorgan and capital-pavlodar ceilings.
diphtheria is an infectious disease that affects all organs and systems of the body.
the provisions of the bill "On Mail" were also discussed, which will be submitted for further revision in the legislative case of parliament.
ensures unhindered transit of goods from Asia to Europe, reduces the cost of delivering goods by more than 2 times.
Therefore, we hope that everything is agreed, we will love athletes and achieve good results, "said the Kazakhstani boxer.
the box will become a large-scale directory not only for doctors, but also for all citizens of our country. our international team of experts worked on other projects .
I.Bramson noted that world companies in various spheres are moving to the use of clean and energy-saving technologies and in this context the topics of the capital exhibition are relevant.
attention should be paid not only to the creation of a legal framework, but also to the training of market participants and the training of the population as a whole on the possibilities of Islamic finance.
During the event, a ceremony was held to sign an agreement on Germany's participation in expo 2017.
According to him, the region has great potential for the development of a housing cluster.
therefore, labor resources must correspond to modern skills and knowledge. therefore , the human resources must always comply with the skills , knowledge , which will be ahead .
It is worth noting that since 2013, 2853 new jobs have been created in the industrial park.
their tax exemption, reduction of customs procedure, insurance, etc. In this regard, Kazakhstan increases the lists of beneficiaries compared to last year's exhibition.
According to A. Shevchenko, Director of Makinskaya Poultry Farm LLC, modern equipment and new technologies with a world name will be used in the implementation of the project.
As the expert noted, the new composition of the meeting should be ready for the adoption and adaptation of changes in society.
Speaking about the method of hydroponics and its advantages and methods of application, the general director of Kazagro Green LLP explained that this method is the last technology that will give fertile and rich products as soon as possible.
moreover, there are no attempts to use the umbrellas of the military bloc, including its direct neighbors, to gain an advantage in relations with third countries.
3 candidates later refused to participate in the elections.
1700 people in line.
- we found unique artifacts.
The main functions of the center are consultation, conceptual expertise, coordination of local projects and selection of competitive documents.
Currently, the country is implementing a comprehensive plan to combat tuberculosis for 2014-2020.	currently , the country implements a comprehensive plan to combat tuberculosis for 2014-2020 .	0,62
In 2014, in the village of Maksimovka, Tselinograd district, an empty building was repaired and reconstructed.	the market will be provided not only by domestic consumers , kazakhstan 's shoes will be on the shelves of many foreign countries .	0,62
confectionery is made of natural substances and it is a pretzel. "
you know the international situation yourself. today our colleagues in the parliament from three parties have appealed to the president to hold snap termination of their powers .
synchronization of elections to maslikhats of all levels will allow successfully implementing the anti-crisis program of the head of state.
for example, the largest Italian company granorolo, which produces milk and dairy products and has 15 factories in different countries of the world, produces dairy products in Kazakhstan (milk; hard and soft cheese, mozzarella and rickota, yogurt and other dairy products).
there train not only judo, but also young judoists.
according to him, this category includes citizens who illegally or legally left for the border.
During the lecture, ambassadors share experience of rational and most effective public administration, information about human, intellectual and natural resources.
The participants of the event discussed organizational issues during the support of the economic silk road of the eurozone on the development of energy and energy infrastructure.
The contract establishes general requirements for drug trafficking in the territory of the Eurasian Economic Union, mainly single registers of medicines, "said the Vice Minister of Kazakhstan.
The text of the questionnaire for observers of foreign states and international organizations has been approved, and the deadline for their accreditation has been set.	the cec has approved a questionnaire for potential observers from foreign states and international organizations .	0,62
agriculture is never an advanced industry.	agriculture is an area that has never lived in a big way .	0,62
earlier it was noted that the creation of a hub in the capital through the ferry and its success were made possible thanks to the preparation of Kazakhstan to share positive experiences in implementing reforms, including strengthening meritocracy in the public service.	earlier , it was stressed that the creation of the hub in astana and its success made possible to share experience in the implementation of reforms , including the strengthening of meritocracy in the civil service .	0,62
According to the head of the department, the analysis revealed the unreasonability of the amount of fees for the state service "Issuing a certificate with a neuropsychiatric organization provided by a psychiatric dispensary."
We think that Kazakhstan will be able to participate in these projects.
The campaign train in January-February will visit all districts of the region.	then the governor of the region launched the campaign train that during january and february will visit all districts of the region .	0,62
In connection with the lease of land to foreign citizens, the expert believes that the land should be cultivated, it needs care. i think it 's a good policy , in any case , the market economy requires it , and the land requires proper care .
In addition, the economic presence will be increased in the Central Asian region and within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, "the minister emphasized.
at the same time, joint effective work should be carried out by the state and citizens.
college graduates are especially taken into account.
The preparation in the star city was great.
any election is an important political process.
The Association of Business Women supports the initiative of deputies to hold early elections to the Majilis. business women 's association supports the initiative to hold snap elections of the deputies of the lower chamber of the parliament and local maslikhats .
the crisis in the world economy continues, no state of the world is experiencing difficulties.
Considering Finland's priority in the sphere of alternative energy, R.Zhoshybaevo expects active participation of the party in EXPO-2017.
To further increase the production of agricultural products, villagers need to actively develop measures of state support. "
According to the holding, one of the main areas of the fund being created - the housing construction guarantee fund guarantees equity holders the completion of construction and the transfer of apartments in case the authorized company fails to fulfill its obligations on the residential building.
we believe that ahko should serve as an anchor in the implementation of reforms and development of the domestic financial sector.
because then the path of development of a sovereign country was determined.
no need to build such large palace kindergartens.
we will no longer have such an opportunity.
The Department of Private Technology is constantly working on the development of new exclusive methods.
Such positions are based on a new law on combating corruption, it itself is oriented towards international standards and has entered into force since the new year.
Following the congress, the party council will decide on participation in the early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats, and will also adopt the election program of the political association.
after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Kazakhstan became a weak restoration of the economic and political situation.
therefore, dream constantly, set yourself a goal, and only then will these dreams be fulfilled, "said the cosmonaut.
"Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
By the decision of the regional commission for the implementation of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, the authorized body for microcredit in the region approved a branch of the Fund for Financial Support to Agriculture JSC.
Also, the Governor of the region instructed the relevant departments to present the available calculations for these projects.
Then, wherever they are located, measures will be taken to identify accounts and assets to determine their origin and taxation, including through the organization for economic cooperation and development.
As the ex-deputy noted, the White Way Democratic Party is leading in the economic situation in the country.
Following the event, a joint communiqué and a number of decisions on the approval of various financial and economic documents were signed.
clarification of the forgotten Kazakh people of blacksmith's craft, jewelry art on the basis of museum fund exhibits.
For the reconstruction of the mining and metallurgical complex of Shalkia, investors are also involved, appropriate work is underway.
now it is important that our entrepreneurs, based on the volume, do not raise prices.
The head of state signed a decree on the holding of parliamentary elections. the initiative to dissolve the majilis is thoughtful step .
Kazakhstan is our partner from tomorrow, therefore participation in the upcoming Universiade is a task for us.
they prevent us from looking to the future.
In addition, the traditional decoration of the city used small architectural forms with a total number of 100 pieces.
In addition, the state revenue authorities received 5 declarations on money legalization in the amount of 948.5 million tenge without opening an account.
on the contrary, he announced the course of shaping social policy, increased salaries and social benefits, "said V. Magas.
he has a multinational, united people.
65% of the budget funds spent on the primary "southern" infrastructure in the region have been returned to the budget to date in the amount of 6.8 billion tenge, "the Governor of the region said.
as for the ownership of land by our citizens, this is part of the clt plan.	in addition , the sale of agricultural land to citizens is a justified measure .	0,62
We are all the main executors of the message in connection with our activities.
summing up, E. Azykhanov invited the chairman of the group, Mr. Stewart, to invite the Speaker of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, Kassym-generous Tokayev, to visit Kazakhstan all members of the parliamentary group of the party.
Thus, the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Mail" entered into force in 2003 and 12 years have passed since then.
5) organization and implementation of marketing events;
the purchase price for all other buyers, of course, is different from the market price.	there is no answer ,  n. shmanov has said .
Recall that at the meeting of the Ministers of Employment, Labor and Social Security, which takes place in Paris, representatives of 42 countries of the world take part.
In order to increase the transit potential of the country in the Caspian Sea, a ferry complex is being built in the port of Kuryk.
According to him, the main work of Kazagro holding in 2016 will be aimed at implementing the 3 steps of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan.
The plan of the nation, derived from 5 institutional reforms, covers the most important areas in the life of the state and society.
it is intended for members who can get it at an affordable price.
Another memorandum on the export of modernized military and civilian equipment was signed by the Bulgarian company Metallika - ab eood.
First of all, instructors on the law of armed conflicts have been trained for peacekeeping units and military educational institutions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said the head of the Department of International Cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel Fair Bekov.
if teachers without education, and teachers without talent, unskilled specialists appear in the state.
This year, 1,074 polling stations are ready for work in South Kazakhstan region.
the agreement provides mechanisms for influencing mistakes made on exchanges of other eurozone countries.
Mark Uzan, Executive Director of the Bretton Woods Modernization Committee, announced a global process for reforming the existing financial structure.
Kazakhstanis should not forget about their roots and roots.
The Government also imposes restrictions on the extent of land that can be temporarily leased to foreigners.
if young people find the correct answer to these three questions, then they will be able to choose their specialty correctly.
Governor of Omsk region V. Nazarov noted the growth of trade between Kazakhstan and Omsk, where mainly agricultural and processing industries were in circulation.
I encourage all of you to share your good deeds.
the egov portal is used by more than 5 million people or more than half of the economically active population of Kazakhstan, which are available 240 electronic services and services.
for me, all further plans are obvious.
Of these, in the 1st quarter of 2016 products worth 446 billion tenge were produced, "the Minister informed.
According to the Governor of the region, the implementation of the project on the creation of aluminum disks is the next stage of the creation of an aluminum cluster in the Pavlodar region.
Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development. "
During the conversation, the President of Kazakhstan noted that in connection with the industrialization of the country, the importance of working specialties is increasing, in connection with which the state is purposefully working in this direction.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
after the Second World War, the entire history of the twentieth century saw successful changes in the system: reform of severe Xiao-pin, reform of Turgut autonomy in Turkey.
Therefore, I drew attention to the initiative of the head of state to increase wages for state employees from next year.
The Director General of UNESCO, recalling the meeting of N. Nazarbayev at UNESCO headquarters in November 2015, praised his vision in supporting the strengthening of stability and security in the world, the statement said.
I note that Kazakhstan is trying to contribute to the development of a system to counter various criminal acts.
last year, by the decision of the republican commission for training personnel abroad, the Future scholarship was appointed to 601 applicants.
it is also planned to optimize the system of providing social assistance to needy residents by strengthening their targeted nature.
all five institutional reforms are directly dependent on legal justice. we can confidently say that the successful implementation of the five institutional reforms directly depends on the rule of law .
According to the data presented by the regional, capital and Almaty territorial election commissions, as of February 12, as of 9-00 hours, only 7885 candidates for deputies of maslikhats of all levels were nominated.
It should be noted that at present, in order to provide additional support and development of small and medium-sized businesses in the capital, together with the Development Fund, a program for the development of youth entrepreneurship is being implemented, in which people under 29 can participate, and programs for targeted lending to the trade sector.
today, effective programmes are being implemented in this direction.
Recall that the musicians of the Central Military Orchestra of the National Military-Patriotic Center of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan paid great attention to Kazakh national melodies, presented popular musical works of our composers and poopurri from Kazakh folk songs.
We define a lot of reserves.
as a representative of a civil alliance, as a citizen, as a member of society, I support this initiative, "he said.
What you finished this year coincided with the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, "N. Nazarbayev said.
this is, first of all, the concept of strengthening and developing Kazakhstan's identity and unity.	according to her , all measures have been included in the special plan and desveloped to consolidate kazakhstanis .	0,62
we have something to learn from the Karaganda people.	we have something to learn from karaganda .	0,62
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.	it is noted that the bill has been submitted to the chamber .	0,62
this project will provide the region's electricity needs, and will also be exported to the Russian Federation, "said the head of state.
As a result of the system work carried out in general, the region has achieved high indicators and occupies a leading position in the republic.
Today, together with Malaysian entrepreneurs in the Merken district, "agrostan" begins the construction of a feeding complex on the basis of a New Zealand project.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of April 2016 amounted to 74.7 thousand people or 0.8% of the economically active population.
deputies of all factions of political parties took part in the subbotnik: "nur otan," "white way" and khkp, as well as the deputy group "Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
in agreement with the city election commission, the decision of the akim of the city determined 31 places for the placement of campaign printed materials of political parties and 54 places for campaign printed materials of candidates for deputies of the maslikhat. the city of astana has registered 121 candidates for maslikhat 's deputies , of them 33 candidates have been nominated by the political parties , 6 candidates - by public associations , 88 candidates are self-nominated .
The parties reaffirmed their intention to strengthen the power capacity, intensify counter-terrorism activities, and increase the readiness of operational collective forces to effectively counter new threats and challenges.
The head of state noted that the initiative of Majilis deputies to hold early parliamentary elections is widely discussed at various discussion platforms, among experts and in the media.
in addition, the resource has its own video channel on youtube, where videos related to elections accumulate.
As a scientist and citizen from an active civic point of view, I support the initiative to hold early elections at the meeting.
self-propelled torpedoes, designed and manufactured by the enterprise, are designed to equip submarines and ships.
head doctor L. Ukibaeva introduced the delegation to the progress of the medical organization and showed the condition of children and mothers.
Andreas Jan previously participated in elections as an observer in Albania, Uzbekistan and several other states.
the law should be supplemented by other normative acts.
the Canadian country, which is a leader in the production of turbo-uranium aircraft for general purposes, shows "top aerobatics."
From September 1, 2016, offline cash desks will be opened in all cities of Kazakhstan.
the new service will reduce the time to receive and send parcels, save company costs, "the Kazpost press service shared.
they demonstrate the excellent tastes of Kazakh cuisine and the peoples of Central Asia.
Thanks to such decisions, our country has achieved great success, "said Z. Shaukenova.
no enterprise lives a one-day life and has no money to give people a salary.	at the same time the deputy prime minister has noted that every company should have a reserve as a  safety margin . "
The main objective of the plan is to improve the mechanisms of accessibility of facilities and services in all areas of life of persons with disabilities.
10 members of the scientific expert group are members of this group.
positive attitude of parents and the pedagogical community towards school uniform. the parents say that it improves the aesthetic appearance of schoolchildren , disciplines , promotes the creation of the work environment .
The plant intends to resume the purchase of raw materials in the previous quantity in June of this year.
ethnoaul of the memorial complex Korkyt ata is a recreation center with yurts, altybaka.
individual investors will be more responsible for their risk.
the purpose of today's meeting is to draw public attention to the benefits of the Scandinavian model of public administration.	the ambassadors held the academy lecture on  north-european cooperation : benefits and paradoxes . "
in the near future, the entrepreneur intends to increase the number of jobs and work without a round-the-clock production stop.
according to him, the state tasks of the development of the industry as a whole meet the economic interests of the country.
The aim of the bill is to bring national environmental legislation into line with the Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, involve the public in environmental decision-making processes and access to justice.
Following the work, a delegation of Chinese observers said that the elections were held in accordance with election law. following the results of the work the chinese observer delegation thinks that the elections have been held in accordance with the electoral legislation of kazakhstan and generally accepted norms of the international law .
entrepreneurs, in turn, expressed gratitude for such support and expressed their commitment to improving the economy of the region.
in order to train workers to sew on new tour equipment, a special specialist from Turkey was invited.
They also noted that this forum will make a significant contribution to the global force in the fight against terrorism and extremism, "the report said.
mastered the experience of creating an industrial zone of the Republic of Tatarstan to create two industrial zones in the Kostanay region and the possibility of further expansion of production enterprises and the creation of an auto-component enterprise.
During the meeting the investment opportunities of Zhambyl region were discussed.
In his speech, the diplomat noted that "Poles deported to Kazakhstan would not have been able to stay alive if assistance had not been provided to the Kazakh side."
Committee members agreed to establish an ad hoc working group following discussions on the preparation of the draft.
universities should commercialize their activities as much as possible and simplify the burden on the state budget.
the decisions of the councils are advisory in nature, but their consideration is mandatory for state bodies.
in the near future, we need to implement crisis and structural comprehensive updates in the following five areas.
The head of the Singapore government expressed confidence that the intensity of cooperation will give new opportunities for the development of trade and investment.
support for the sports movement as one of the strategic directions of state policy is carried out by promoting a healthy lifestyle and mass sports with the involvement of student youth in Kazakhstan, "the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reported.
we have no problem.
At the same time, E. Khairov noted that the world is the main place for investors, an environment where one window works.
meat production increased by 7.5 thousand tons.
As last year, this year the main speakers of the forum will be Nobel Prize winners in economics, well-known entrepreneurs and leading experts, the official website of aef reports.
All 242 branches of the party, active members of primary party organizations and deputies of maslikhats were involved in this work.
According to him, educational institutions of vocational education have begun to implement the plan of the nation on behalf of the head of state.
By 2040, Saudi Arabs plan to abandon the use of traditional oil and coal and switch to alternative sources of energy - solar energy and wind energy.
The event was attended by about 3,000 people, including representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, members of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, scientific and creative intelligentsia, youth.
the exhibition will run for a month.
The head of state noted that the theme of today's summit is close to the peoples of the two countries affected by nuclear weapons tests, therefore, the positions of Kazakhstan and Japan in the global anti-nuclear movement are similar.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues will be considered, especially work on the draft pension agreement for employees of EU member states.
Within the framework of Expo 2017, the Ministry of Energy will hold an international competition in the field of beck, for the implementation of which a contribution to the development of the best oil companies and back will be considered, "said K. bozumbayev.
Each document has its own specificity.
we plan to develop this product on the basis of a subsidiary "cadb leasing," since "leasing" essentially resembles financial leasing.
The existing composition of the lower house of parliament has prepared the legislative framework necessary for the implementation of the national plan.
celebrations are held every month within the framework of the achievements of independence and the values ​ ​ of the "eternal country."
these initiatives are at the heart of our country's efforts to strengthen international peace and security and reaffirm its credibility as a reliable partner of the international community.
its role in society belongs to observers in order to achieve its results and trust in the elections.
Against the background of the first manifestations of the global crisis, today's composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan has carried out its work at a high level.
in the cars of a medical train, called a wheeled polyclinic, there are doctors' offices, a diagnostic building, a registry, and power and recreation units.
this is a big impulse in school education.
Chairman of the Judicial Board for Criminal Cases Nurmukhammat Abidov, opening the meeting, spoke about the history of the regional court, innovations in the judicial system, carried out in accordance with the national plan, raising the world rating on the basis of ensuring the rule of law in Kazakhstan.
there may be political partners in different countries, but the composition of fraternal countries does not change.
During the conversation with employees of the enterprise Nursultan Nazarbayev wished them fruitful work, professional achievements.
To date, the center has identified and started joint work with the Governor's Office of the region on planned business projects.
This is a unique opportunity for Kazakhstan observers.
Carrying out the necessary procedures for the creation of a new ministry of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the assignment of relevant functions in the field of information from the Ministry of Investment and Development.
As you know, in India, high demographics, in terms of population density, are not inferior to Chinese. as you know , india has high demographic indicators .
Two major projects will be implemented within the framework of these agreements in the amount of trillion tenge.
preparing for the upcoming games.
this idea was supported by many Kazakhstanis.
The total cost of the project is 12 million US dollars.
in accordance with the agreement, the centralized heat supply system and the reconstruction of the water supply and sanitation infrastructure of the Semipalatinsk Vodokanal and Teplokomunenergo institutions will be modernized in Semey.
Due to the fact that a global summit on the development of cities and parity points in the city of Quito was held in the capital of Ecuador this year, Kazakhstan presented the results of the main programs on an Astana basis.
military blocs include various States that do not always feel responsible for peace and security.
this is the goal and task of the head of state.
the judiciary should be an occasion for the triumph of law.
At a meeting of the council, this project was approved and the plant was built on the latest construction equipment.
therefore, they were interested in the menu in space, its impact on the health of astronauts, the benefit of biologically active substances, changing taste on earth and in space.
Speaking at the meeting, Duissenova said that this year the activities to implement the second stage of the Action Plan to ensure the rights and improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities in Kazakhstan for 2012-2018 will be completed.
I think that we are still at the beginning of the journey, and the priority of integration allows us to immediately increase trade. the integration creates the necessary conditions to increase turnover .
To implement the legislative framework of the national plan, new people are needed.
We believe that this is a sign of great respect not only for the sacred mecca, but also for Islamic religious culture in general.
today, the share of breeding cattle is 12.8% of the total herd.
more than a thousand representatives of other nationalities are covered by instruction in the level of their native language (German, Ukrainian, Karis, Tatar-Bashkir, Azerbaijani, Chechen) and the state language.
417 billion tenge was allocated by the state for these purposes.
Among the owners of Turkic-speaking awards are the poet of the world and the Turkic people, the writer of the O.Suleimen and the writer, M.Baigu.
then the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Way" and the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is very interested in improving the quality of products.
the crisis has particularly affected the industrial sector.
Adapt and take action as appropriate.
LED products began to be used six years ago.
a health rehabilitation centre will be established by the end of the year.
According to the 2016 roadmap approved by the fund, the company began making changes to its main activities.
these centres will modernize the culture and traditions of their countries, as well as actively participate in the political life of the country.
I think it will agree with the view that it will achieve sustained economic growth.
we can say that they "export" our values.
elections are held in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Elections," which regulates the course of this process, "said Alan spence.
According to him, maslikhats form the budget of local authorities, that is, regions.
large-scale cooperation is underway and memoranda with Nazarbayev intellectual schools have been signed, as well as the importance of military disciplines and indicators of the current year have been increased.
laureates were awarded diplomas and valuable gifts.
The Governor of the region noted that the quality and employment of graduates are the main criteria for assessing the effectiveness of higher and secondary special educational institutions.
in addition, boxes for the elderly, the sick and people with disabilities were empty.
The largest amount of attracted investments in the mining industry is $58.8 billion or 26.4%.
and energy efficiency.
Today is a great day, because thanking is great. today in the republic there are more than 800 events held in honor of the gratitude day .
During the signing of the memorandum with the "Association of Credit Partnerships in the Agro-industrial Complex," the parties agreed to provide agency services for issuing loans.
we are talking about the principles of regulation of the activities of collective management of organizations on copyright and related law.
before we started this work, we got acquainted with the life and work of the Dzhabaev. the creative heritage of the great poet zh . zhabayev - a valuable contribution to the fund of kazakh literature .
because the man is the owner of the country, and the woman is the house.
today there is a meat processing complex.
under it, the World Bank grants Kazakhstan a grant of $21.7 million, as set out or set out in this agreement, to assist in financing the Youth Corps Development Project.
Improvement of the prison system.
he noted that children are the future of the country.
Following the meeting, a ceremony was held to sign memoranda of cooperation with the national tourism association "Matta" and the research center "greentech."
He also noted that the Expo-2017 exhibition will give a new impetus to the development of a new complex of parties.
conversion wheel equipment was developed at the factory on the basis of br.
At the same time, the head of state drew attention to the fact that the audit should include not only financial issues, but also an assessment of the effectiveness of the body in all areas.
this indicates the decline of the state institution in some countries.
this year, the number of participants increased significantly.
the bill will be considered at an expanded meeting of the upper house.
the young state then voluntarily refused to own the fourth nuclear weapon potential in the world, inherited after the collapse of the USSR, and its means of delivery.
Recall that the reason for the uprising was socio-economic and political factors.
Let our path to the future shine through great achievements and the good of our independence.
crisis defeats science.
I think it is right to allow all of us to begin preparations for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of our country's independence next year, "he said. Nazarbayev at the solemn meeting dedicated to Independence Day.
Modern medical equipment is installed in the facility.
it also includes the state of the economy.
at the same time, the president notes the 2050 strategy as a specific program consisting of specific cases.
The President of Kazakhstan also invited Turkish companies to take part in the upcoming expo 2017.
the national bank needs to carry out stress testing of all subjects of the banking sector on non-working loans.
both sides have the same benefit - one side receives a guaranteed flamethrower, the other side receives a guaranteed refund.
First of all, administrative barriers will be removed in this mechanism, which will allow the private sector to more actively start health care.	the second direction is to support for the private sector in the provision of medical services , it is traditionally included in the package of guaranteed volume of free medical care ,  e.birtanov added .
The list of priority specialties of 163 items has been updated, 41% of which are aimed at training engineering specialists.
In addition, the minister spoke in detail about the priority of the Estonian public service, noting that the effective electronic government and the Estonian government prefer to prevent corruption.
About 70 events were organized in the capital in honor of the Nauryz holiday.
Today, the debate of political parties took place without violating the rules of the decree.
getting acquainted with the work of the enterprise and observing the production process, s.s.
in addition, I have no doubt about profit, so I pay my employees on time.
A participant in the newly opened business support program, a resident of the village of Orthakshyl, Shieli district, with won grant funds, is engaged in the production of high-quality national dishes, including sliced, crushed and zhent food, in packaging.
To improve the operational situation and ensure proper law and order, from March 16 to 18, the Ministry of Internal Affairs conducted an operational and preventive measure "law and order."
these three months is the time when children go on their own.
Since 2008, about 50 military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan have studied at Lithuanian universities, including about 23 Kazakhstani servicemen received course training in the last 2012-2015.
the kazatomprom has great goals for the development of the country's nuclear industry. kazatomprom has a target to develop the nuclear industry .
As part of the 60-61 step of the National Plan, the akimat of the region takes measures to attract strategic investors in the development of milk and dairy products, as well as meat.
reconstruction of the water supply system in the village of Parkuduk has been completed. the reconstruction works of water supply system in zholkudyk village and irtysh was completed , " - the head of the region said .
yesterday, the first strip of work was launched.
these upgrades have a crucial role to play.
in general in ten years the public expenditures on the actual indicator grew by the social sphere almost by 3 times.
according to him, it provides many interesting data that still remain unknown to the general public.
the development of this area will contribute to the growth of international trade and the qualitative development of logistics activities.
the anniversary of independence should work to strengthen the Kazakh society, to consolidate within the strategic direction of the head of state, "he said.
Recall that Burnovaya Dairy Company LLP is a domestic plant for the production of natural cheeses and garlic.
this, in turn, affects the start and finish dates of construction and, finally, the cost of construction.
the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan should be updated before the new wave of crisis.
I appeal to all to participate actively in the elections and to demonstrate once again the unity and unity in the way of the future of our country.
At the same time, my colleagues noted that this happened at almost all polling stations.
his favorite, tenors, who plays the role of benjamin franklin pinkerton, lieutenant of the American fleet - star of the Italian opera scene fabio armiliato (Italy) and Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Medet Schabayev.
who explained to people what was behind it?
contractual work is under way.
According to him, participation in the program not only gives a special status, but also imposes additional responsibility, and yet representatives of SMEs are ready for this.
great sugar unites a large space of Eurasia, the cultural heritage of great sahara brings all human civilization closer.
at the same time, it creates the conditions for overcoming objective difficulties related to the current impact of the global crisis.
Every year, local executive bodies of the regions increase funding for social assistance to persons with tuberculosis taking outpatient treatment.
as a result of the work, it turned out that only 283 tested objects had a ramp installed in accordance with construction codes.
in free life of Kazakhstan together with Kazakh Ukrainian, the Ukrainian village, the Ukrainian poetry and various ethnic groups living in this country sound", - the chairman of the Ukrainian public association" Ochareniye "in the capital Tamara Shirmer told.
It is worth noting that today in the armed forces of the country special attention is paid to sport.
rally-raid crosses the territory of three countries of western Africa - Morocco, Mauritania and Senegal.
Agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Korea on temporary work activities of Kazakh citizens in Korea and Korean citizens in the framework of intra-corporate transitions; the Convention on Obtaining Evidence Abroad in Civil or Commercial Matters, the Convention on the International Procedure for the Recovery of Child Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance and the Protocol on the Right to Maintenance Obligations; ratification of the intergovernmental agreement between Kazakhstan and Norway on readmission of persons.
Such issues within the framework of the law accustom to the civilized resolution of disputes of subjects of law, contribute to the fact that state courts do not obey their decision, "he said.
to increase the profitability of air transportation around Almaty, an international aviation hub is being created.
And at the end of the lesson, the most active schoolchildren were awarded gifts and souvenirs on behalf of the EU and its member states.
At the same time, the head of state noted that in schools in Kazakhstan in some subjects there is a heavy burden on children.
in the future, he surrenders the object to communal property, but operation remains until the end of the contract.
budget savings for elections and strict fiscal discipline. the chairmen of election commissions are responsible for compliance of financial documents and all the financial issues .
Iran's important role in regional and global relations divides Iranians into joy and status.
calm and stability in our country is the main condition necessary for the development of the state and the achievement of all our goals.
then got acquainted with the work of the furniture production enterprise with a long history.
In such a promising area as tourism, it is mainly planned to achieve significant growth by reducing administrative barriers, developing new tourist facilities and routes, and improving the quality of services provided.
An individual applying to an employment centre for employment is first granted the status of a job seeker.
commercialization of scientific works of scientists, introduction into production, allocation of grants to them.
as for our cooperation, of course, it is strategic, peaceful, as a rule, we are taking several reliable steps to solve the issues that pose us with life and modern times, "said Army General Sergei Shoigu, Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation.
As part of the construction and formation of the kegoc electric power infrastructure, a number of large-scale projects were implemented, such as the construction of the second line of the north-south transit of 500kv, the construction of the 500kv high-voltage line of the inter-housing region, the construction of the 500, 220 kV Yabloko substation, where 500 kV lines are connected to the Kazakhstan network.
in this regard, he noted that Kazakhstan has the necessary internal and external competitive priorities, which provides appropriate opportunities for geographical location, economic and political stability, a favorable tax climate, large volumes of state funds and other favorable conditions.
earlier in cities such as Cyprus, Baku, Macedonia, New York and Bishkek, the traditional collection gathered about a hundred intellectuals from different countries.
in the whole country, the district election commissions registered 10,825 candidates for deputies of maslikhats of all levels.
As you know, today one of the issues is the accumulation of a large amount of garbage. today , one of the main problems is the waste .
success of reforms - the path to unity of the nation
No party has complained of pressure from the Government or other organizations.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Egypt spoke about the main stages of the historical formation of the Kazakh state and the literary heritage of Esenberlin.
The opening of the monument took place as part of the VI summit of the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking states.
The sides also expressed confidence that the established Kazakh-Spanish Business Council will make a great contribution to the intensification of bilateral business partnership.
today's youth must be fully developed.
I think that four years is enough for some enterprises to get on their feet. i think four years is enough to grow some businesses .
the more participants in the electoral process, the stronger the legitimacy of state institutions. "
Indicators and the corresponding test receptions which will allow to develop concrete methods of planning of future requirements for representatives of city akimat and public authorities, designers, designers and other experts are provided in this national standard.
The final price will be known later, two weeks after shuttlebus passes in these areas, in connection with the examination of the costs of the company, explained in the administration of the state regional natural park "Medeu."
A list of 13 contractual premises for meetings of political parties and candidates with voters has also been approved.
In particular, it is planned to transfer 8 people out of 46 people from the village of Kazakhstanskoye, Bayganinsky district, with low economic potential, to the district guard center.
- Do you think that Kazakhstanis will have enough opportunity to realize the tasks outlined in the November message of N. Nazarbayev?
It is worth noting that the production of equipment for sports grounds is carried out in the city with growth.
From 2009 to the present, he served as the head of the apparatus of the akim of Zhambyl region, deputy akim of Zhambyl region and deputy akim of Pavlodar region.
of which 439 are magistrates, 40 are doctoral students, 122 are under the internship program.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels on March 20, 2016
According to Governor of Astana Adilbek Dzhaksybekov, by 2017 the coverage of preschool education for children from 3 to 6 years in the capital will reach 95%.
It is worth noting that on the days of the celebration of national holidays, tickets go on sale.
we have the natural resources and human capital to fill this gap.
This year, a youth project was announced on a grant from the akim of the region "Names will tell."
seasonal changes are taking place in Russia, but there will be no significant growth, "said A. Magauov.
therefore, invaluable contribution to the global movement for peace in the search for balanced solutions, openly discussing world problems accumulated on the site of the Eurasian Media Forum.
During the meeting, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan informed about the ongoing work on the consideration of citizens' appeals, including those related to the electoral process.
I think by then we will have time to register all party lists.
In 2012, a new turbine was launched.
About ten students of the sports club for people with disabilities "Sniper" of Akmola region went to defend the honor of the region.
The work of the assembly contributes to the enhancement of international authority as a State that effectively addresses the problem of interethnic relations.
It is joyful that representatives of all parties, without using black PR, are critical of the campaign.
In the future, the parties discussed issues of international security, cultural and humanitarian relations between the two states.
now the priority is not what they have done in 20 years, but those instructions that the head of state voiced in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "said N. Korzhov.
The text editor of the site not only processes novelties and gives a description of the company, but also allows you to quickly find the company in search engines.
As an akim of the rural district, I touched on the words of the head of state about the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the plan of the nation, "D. Ashtayev said.
One of the points of the plan is the control of white environmental measures "capital-energy" and the release of pollutants into the air of vehicles.
servicemen of the military unit No. 5573 of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan will ensure the safety of citizens of the country. the soldiers of the military unit no.5573 of the national guard always care of the security of citizens .
Four directions for each category.
passenger trains can only be driven by very qualified, experienced masters of the first and second classes.
the Minister answered current questions: extension of the school year in schools, English language teaching, certification of the Kazakh university, academic mobility.
local self-government is the main issue between the state and citizenship.
Following negotiations between the experts of the two countries, a draft agreement was developed on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and persons to whom medical coercive measures were applied.
But these microcredits are bought and used by Russian companies, "said M. Zhakenov.
and this indicates the possibility of expanding cooperation between states of various integration formats, "said the head of the European Union mission in Kazakhstan, Ambassador Trajan Hristea.
According to the department, the main theme of the speech of a.muhamediula and ts.hunfen was the filming of the film project "Film Composer" about the life of the great composer.
98 of them are elected by party lists, 9 - from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In addition, in 2015, 6.6 billion tenge was allocated for the overhaul and average repair of roads of the region.
the main focus was scientific research.
This task is carried out through legal expertise of draft legal acts of the judicial authorities, coordination activities and planning of the bill.
for replenishment of working capital and acquisition of fixed assets in accordance with the terms of the program, interest rates on loans for construction, as well as leasing for the purchase of technological equipment and agricultural equipment should be reduced to 7% per annum, in turn, the state subsidizes the interest rate on contracts for the purchase of agricultural equipment and equipment necessary for livestock and feed production industries in the amount of 10% (if there is a supporting document of the borrower on the presence of 50 animal heads or land plots for growing fodder crops).
The company produced products worth 816 million tenge, commissioned at the end of last year.
The head of the company noted that today one of the main goals is to achieve stability of indicators, as well as reduce the cost of production.
stable trade and economic ties of our region.
The aim of this reform is to strictly enforce the laws of the Kazakhstan justice system and law enforcement agencies.
According to the chairman of the regional election commission, candidates nominated for maslikhats are registered there.
these issues will be considered by specific expert groups upon completion of the technical regulations. there will be a special expert group to finalize the technical regulations .
I am sure that the renewal of the composition of representatives of the sphere of power is in the interests of our country and the people. today i 've signed a decree on dissolution of the majilis of the parliament of the fifth convocation .
They are also negotiating with representatives of second-tier banks to raise credit funds for the purchase of equipment for the Precious Salt LLP plant.
Chairman of the Judicial Board for Criminal Cases of the Zhambyl Regional Court on "Open Day." Kulekeev, head of the court administrator for the Zhambyl region a. Kulduisens, as well as representatives of the garden.
the first is the participation of the head of state in a solemn event dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Second World War in Moscow.
Work on the construction of an enrichment plant for the processing of sulfide ore is going on in accordance with the schedule, the launch of the factory and the start of production of copper concentrate from sulfide ore are planned for 2017.
According to L. Ni, if the assembly in the first years fulfilled political meaning, today humanity is inferior to all directions.
More than 500 participants are expected.
familiarized us with the preparation and conduct of the elections.
no country does that today.
today is a time of urgent operational activities.
the number of doctor visits was 1,738,744.
each industry must have its own qualification requirements.
The winner of the competition was the bauman team.
In order to increase the unemployment rate, the district leadership is actively working to develop small and medium-sized businesses.
The treatment and management of the pension fund should be the same as that of the national fund and management.
the total number of participants is more than 500 people.
this is the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development.
In turn, drainage work, consultations on heating, further use of the furnace were carried out.
in this regard, we will change the forecast.	inflation rate is expected to make 6-8 % .	0,63
all this will overcome the existing difficulties.	all of these will enable us to overcome the existing difficulties .	0,63
that is, this is the level that we are trying on Kazakhstan.
this is not only an update of technologies, but also an update of the personnel of departments.
the list included 6 thousand subjects.
At the 60th step - attracting strategic investors to develop the production of milk and dairy products.
if President Nazarbayev supports the initiative of the deputies to hold early elections to the majilis and maslikhats of all levels, then Kazakhstanis will be able to offer a mandate of confidence in the formation of a new competitive parliament.
the chamber took part in the implementation of many measures taken by the state to support small and medium-sized businesses.
then the representative of each political party, alternately in the order of registration of their party lists, removed any envelope from the table, opened it and published a sheet with a number.
the club area is 450 square meters, the courtyard club, built according to the "kick" program, is located on the 1st floor and the basement of the housing estate.
in addition, the Directorate of the Winter Universiade signed a contract with Cluster Montal.
on the Kazakh side it was signed by the Commissioner of the river. Zhoshybayev, on the German side, by the Commissioner General of the German Pavilion, authorized by the German Ministry of Economy and Energy, dieter schmitz.
A complete set of materials of the congress with the final declaration is presented in Kazakh, Russian and English.
the official visit of the Egyptian president to our country is designed to give impetus to Kazakh-Egyptian cooperation in the framework of his Asian tour.
According to the organizers, the exhibition was held in order to increase the interest of students in education and increase theoretical knowledge.
also 5 master classes will be held by well-known journalists, politicians and economists.
seedlings will be planted here, footpaths and bicycle paths will be provided.
On the issue of local self-government bodies, it is necessary to improve legislative acts on improving the efficiency of private budget management, "said N. Nazarbayev.
corn - the country that buys the most grain, we are the most export country. the second direction - to establish long-term relations in the sphere of agriculture .
The Head of State congratulated all those gathered in Akorda.
To continue this work, a regional plan has been approved, thanks to which 2330 water supply facilities are planned to be built by 2020, he said.
a unified system of command training for sergeants will also be introduced.
850 of them were registered.
deputies also have a special place in ensuring the unity of the country and the cohesion of society.
To begin the construction of the sugar factory, a working trip to the Shardarin district was recently organized.
presidential elections were held that proved the integrity of our society, the correctness of the chosen course for the full modernization of the country.
The parties agreed in 2016 to establish favorable tariff benefits for the new railway line Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran for the further development of the transportation process between the states.
in general, in the country, candidates for deputies were able to freely conduct an election campaign during the elections. candidates had the opportunity to conduct the election campaign throughout the country .
as a result of the recycling of all waste in the airport terminal, an eco airport is formed and it becomes possible to obtain electricity of 1 mW.
villagers and agricultural workers are currently forced to visit district centers or cities to obtain banking services, as well as advice on loan agreements. the villagers and those who work in the agricultural sector have to go to the regional centers or the city to obtain the banking services as well as advice on credit conditions .
According to the Vice Minister, the agenda will summarize the results of the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
The topic of strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation continued at the meeting of the chairman of the inter-parliamentary union with the chairman of the Saber Chowdhury.
normative legal acts, legal acts of individual application, legal acts in the field of the state planning system.
every year the number of people going to the subbotnik grows. over 16,000 trees will be planted in the city today .
First of all, I want to congratulate the Kazakh people on the March holiday. first of all , i would like to congratulate the people of kazakhstan on nauryz holiday , which is celebrated today .
The newly adopted Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes changed the steps for the imposition of criminal punishment, provided for conciliation procedures, the possibility of applying alternative preventive measures, and introduced mechanisms that have grown in the process of protecting human rights from the stage of initiating criminal proceedings.
Note that on this day thousands of residents came to the church in Kokshetau.
According to the managing director, the selection of candidates for senior positions in the fund is carried out in three areas.
our people never lived as well as they did today.
on the bolon system for credit technology.
the process of ammunition disposal is carried out at two disposal sites in the city of Lviv and at the otar station.
among them are the republican universiade and the winter stage of the ski jumping World Cup.
If there are disciplinary sanctions on the salaries of civil servants of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the presence of disciplinary measures will affect the level of remuneration , as we are turning to the wage system based on the bonus parts .
Currently, the dry port of Aea carries out logistical and multimedia operations to deliver goods to consumers of the countries of the customs union, central Asia and Europe, the Persian Gulf.
all gifts were purchased at the expense of funds collected by military personnel in arbitrary form.
The active work of the presidents of the two countries gives calm and confidence in the future.
Note that in Turkestan, more than 3600 citizens are currently in line for housing.
Two schools of the region teach 12-year education in the form of experience.
In addition, 85 thousand new jobs were created, and during the construction process there were more, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In particular, it is planned to sign documents with Germany, Italy, China, Poland in the field of hunting, energy, metallurgy, chemistry and grain production, "said K. Zhumabauly.
Management fisu expressed confidence that University games in Almaty will be an example for other university games in the future.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstanis supported the "nur otan" party not only at the meeting, but also in the elections to maslikhats of all levels.
It is also proposed to create a network of exclusive distributors from Afghanistan for the agreed goods.
in turn, census documents will be approved by the authorized bodies in the field of state statistics, which is fully consistent with the national legislation on population censuses.
this gas pipeline will allow to carry out Kazakhstan's deliveries, and in the future to supply Russian gas to China.	the corridor is the shortest road route from china to europe is of great importance in improving the transit potential of the entire eurasian continent ,  - said t. zhaksylykov .
however, we must take any action.
As the expert noted, the Parliament of Kazakhstan should accept all tests and work on their solution, creatively, prone to change.
the African Triathlon Cup was held in Zimbabwe.
- The region pays great attention to the implementation of steps aimed at economic growth in the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" of 5 institutional reforms.
today it is important to maximize domestic resources for sustained economic growth.
we know that Kazakhstan is rich in fossil energy sources, that is, there is no need for hatred.
I am sure that the citizens of Kazakhstan expressed their opinion.
the parties also agreed to continue work on Morocco's accession to the Islamic organization for food security.
In 2015, the introduction of new requirements into the program reduced the time for considering applications, which led to an improvement in indicators, experts from the regional entrepreneurship department said.
In 2014, there were 88 schools in the capital, in 2015 their number reached 94.
During the exercises, the military worked out actions to neutralize the terrorists who attacked the checkpoint.
More than 500 Kazakhstani companies supply their products to the carrefour hypermarket, of which 130 are agricultural producers in Almaty and Almaty region.
Rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan Bolatbek Abdrasylov addressed the participants.
Yelzhan Birtanov noted that the new system will allow more allocation of funds in favor of those who do not need.
In 2014, growth amounted to 4.3%, last year - 1.2%.
the main goal that we adhere to, we consider companies with the participation of shareholders. the basic principle is the shareholders companies and their rights .
for the first time since the formation of Kazakhstan as an independent state, the Kazakh Valsi ball will be held.
During a trip to the Kazakh country, thanks to cohesion and stability, I saw a developed state, "said Mamadu Tangara.
Heads of companies expressed gratitude for creating conditions for foreign investors in Kazakhstan and noted that this opens up the possibility of expanding cooperation with Kazakh partners.
Early elections to the country's parliament will help implement these reforms related to the crisis, "he said.
however, stronger security can be ensured only through structures aimed at mutual security of all parties, "the article says.
In this regard, the head of the region turned to a mining worker with a request to reconstruct sections of the Aktobe-Martuk highway belonging to the Russian section.
Stability in Kazakhstan is important both for us and for joint development.	experts agreed that the experience of kazakhstan has opened the electoral cycle in the eurasian space .	0,64
the restaurant covers an area of ​ ​ 863 square meters, for visitors there are 206 seats for seating.	the 206-seat restaurant covers the area of 863 square kilometers .	0,64
ratification of these protocols will take a worthy place in the market of medicines and medical products of the Eurasian Economic Union of Kazakhstan and will contribute to improving the quality of domestic pharmaceutical products.	the ratification of these protocols will allow kazakhstan to take its place in the general market of medicines and medical devices of the eurasian economic union and improve the competitiveness of domestic pharmaceutical production .	0,64
it is important that the initiative to strengthen the institution of the business ombudsman should become the central mechanism for protecting business and legal assistance to entrepreneurs.	the experience of the oecd countries shows that the most important principle of the successfully functioning economy is to support the state of small and medium business , providing an adequate level of protection .	0,64
If in 2014 18 teachers taught in these areas, then in 2015 there were 32.	besides , the schools have introduced the teaching of science and math cycle in english .	0,64
The choice of this topic is related to what is happening in the global economy, "said A. Yergaliev.
A blue volcano with a height of more than 2 meters is made of a sedimentary layer.
the manifesto is posted on the electronic system of the United Nations secretariat, which will be available to all Member States.
The concept of forming a common electric power market of the union was approved by the heads of state on May 8, now a corresponding program is being developed, which will be adopted before July 1, 2016.
During the action, residents of the village and youth were provided with free medical care, special leaflets were handed out.
it is of great importance because the younger generation must know the history of its people.
The co-organizers of the event - the center for the study of inter-ethnic and interfaith relations in the Central Asian region of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the association of "centers for the study of religions" - are held with the technical support of the International Corporation of Non-Governmental Organizations (sfcg) "search for common interest" in Kyrgyzstan.
The Vice Minister also commented on the information that appeared in the garden on the issue of freezing products at a certain level, which is planned for countries and Russia.
Tokayev noted the important role of regional organizations in the field of security - ekyu, shu and anshk, as well as the need to strengthen economic cooperation in the interests of the peoples of Eurasia.
During this event a. Ayymbetov met with the staff and students of the Kazkosmos Lyceum, where he spoke about the research and experiments of the fifth space program of the Republic of Kazakhstan, developed on the international space station.
The bill aims to further improve the mechanisms for bringing legislation in line with the Aarhus Convention ratified by Kazakhstan and the regulation of evaporative gas emissions.
over the past stages, mentors will be assigned and a probationary period of 3 to 6 months will be established.
service in special forces is a good school in which every young man begins to be a hero, as well as a school of patriotism, love for his native land. the service in the special forces is a good school of courage for any young person , but also a school of patriotism and love for the native land .
In addition, the Chairman of the National Union of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan Inna Rey presented the tourist potential of Kazakhstan.
Here, all Kazakhstanis can turn to the people for help, "he said.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs is closely monitoring migration conditions. considerable attention of the ministry of internal affairs is paid to the situation of the migration control .
Every year, all Kazakhstanis look forward to the message of the head of state to the people. all the people of kazakhstan with great interest and excitement wait for the annual address of the president of kazakhstan .
And in 2015, this organization provided paperwork services to 35,899 entrepreneurs, more than 7 thousand citizens successfully graduated from entrepreneurship school.
I think it's right to hold early elections. i think that the decision to hold early elections is absolutely right - we need completely new changes .
Early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan will be held on March 20, 2016.
As the expert noted, one example is that second-line players, when they want to rise to a higher level, begin to penetrate into regional geopolitical processes, and global powers gradually lose their positions, which is the relationship between Arabs and Saudis.
as part of the cultural program, deputies visited the cathedral church, museum a.s. Pushkin and the Museum of Local Lore.
Following negotiations between the railway administrations of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, relevant protocols were signed.
As the professor noted, he is the author of about 200 scientific publications, including co-author of collective monographs.
they will advise citizens and civil servants, ensure the protection of their rights.
This year, the NPP is developing a concept for protecting domestic producers in the order of the eurozone and du.
It is noted that a new section with a length of 27 km was built, which bypasses the city of Pavlodar.
It should be noted that a total of 107 deputies of the Majilis will be elected as part of the election campaign.
According to him, 619 billion tenge was spent due to violations of budget legislation.
thus, in the city of Almaty, the head of state N. Nazarbayev's order to increase the share of Kazakh content, mutual exchange of goods between regions, as well as provide the population with domestic products at better and more affordable prices continues to be implemented.
in the nomination "Best Collective Agreement" among large business entities in Aktobe region among white, medium and small business entities, "akbulak" became white.
The plans are formed in accordance with the agro-industrial policy of the EAEU countries, which works under the coordinator of the agro-industrial policy department of the commission, the press service of the EEC reports.
issues of harmonization with legislation and the elimination of barriers in the field of international cellular communications in the EAEU countries, the use of effective approaches to a distribution and dealer agreement, in a number of industries.
we must solve public issues and problems in the city on the ground, "said the deputy head of the construction department of Astana.
In addition, the ambassador congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the upcoming March holiday.
The head of state noted that our republic is successfully developing a national model of mutual responsibility and support, the main mechanism of which is the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
A feature of the forum this year is the introduction of a registration fee.
in the elections of local bodies to maslikhats of all levels, 3335 deputies are elected: regional - 550, city - 625 and district - 2160.
because the international schedule of state leaders is very difficult, there are large measures at home.
it is our pride and special pride! " -he said.
The session did not ignore the revitalization of the maternal council in rural areas.
Also, taking into account the success of the trade task, Kazakhstan is considering the possibility of opening a trade representative office of Kazakhstan in Iran together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
therefore, as far as I know, today in the adopted resolution there is no "kaznex invest" company and, accordingly, the issue of privatization of our company is not worth it.
if we seriously consider the measures proposed by the head of state, this is the beginning of a new stage in the development of a market economy.
By the way, my family can be called a small family of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
this, in turn, creates difficulties.
at the end of the event, the dean of the Taraz State Pedagogical Institute. tokbergen, m.h. Head of the Department of Taraz State University named after x. Suleymanov noted the importance of the meeting, and also noted the importance of directing young people to obtain quality legal knowledge based on experience, the report said.
Thus, over 3 years, 5,000 women from Alma-Ata and Akmola region received training.
5113 users received a resource-based method of training through the electronic key of costing programs for self-study.
Note that the shopping center will serve special robots, including sales consultants.
we all - spectators and artists - for decades we live amicably and peacefully under the hospitable Kazakh shanyrak.
we will show these projects at the exhibition, "he said.
The Ministry is currently considering options to accelerate the transition of all schools to 5-day education.
Discussing the current issues of the club, the head of the region noted that the results of the last matches give hope.
Within the framework of the EAEU, economic integration has been further strengthened, and the country has also joined the World Trade Organization, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
There is great potential in this area, "said the Ambassador of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
our country has already made it possible for many of you to make money and appear on the front pages of business magazines.
I urge to unite around the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in a difficult period, during a period of global instability.
thanks to this network, Kazakhstan does not depend on Russia's electricity, "he said.
In Taraz, in the Youth Palace of Tara University named after M.H.Dulati, as part of the "Train" M Gilik El "campaign dedicated to the 25th anniversary of Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a meeting was held with the director of the Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan Yelami Katenov.
For the competition, the akmola was the nose of the regional department of physical culture and sports.
Recall that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev sent an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan on November 30.
a quarter of a century of Kazakhstan's independence has shown that only a cohesive people can reach amazing heights of development.
It should be noted that in accordance with the electoral legislation, an extraordinary XIII congress of the Akjol party was held, during which delegates unanimously supported the party's decision to participate in the elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats, and also submitted lists assigned to the Central Election Commission.
I think that preparations for the parliamentary elections in Kazakhstan are carried out in accordance with the set of anti-crisis measures. i think that the parliamentary elections is part of a set of anti-crisis measures aimed at the sustained development of the society .
this technique drives on environmentally friendly fuel, moves freely to mountainous places, four wheels work the same, the braking system is also firmly created.
Calling the importance of establishing a bank of low enriched uranium (TBU) as a mechanism for ensuring the supply of nuclear fuel to provide additional assurances to Member States in the initial phase of the fuel cycle;
even a special headquarters had been established to deal quickly with certain issues during the preparation.
The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan clearly spells out the requirements for candidates and the right to hold elections, "the head of the department said.
we gathered at this forum for the 13th time. i wholeheartedly welcome you all in the beautiful capital of kazakhstan - astana .
command training is one of the main elements of combat readiness. commander training is one of the basic elements of combat training .
to date, they are studying according to the academic program in the leading educational institutions of the world and Nazarbayev University.
The work of health schools on child nutrition will be strengthened.
following the meeting, the requirement of fellows of the "future" was changed, as well as the list of priority specialties.
you don't have to list everything.
Prior to this, the companies entered into similar agreements in relation to the markets of Siberian and Ural federal districts of Russia.
In particular, last year solar cotton planted "white gold" on 99.3 thousand hectares, this year it is planned to increase its area to 11.3 thousand hectares and bring the area of ​ ​ cotton to 110.6 thousand hectares.
Kazakhstan, possessing unique natural resources and culture, has huge unrealized potential for tourism development in international and regional markets.
Representatives of akimats of Baigan and March districts, as well as the acting head of the education department of Aktobe region the Beghimbet channel spoke before the commission.
The ideas and proposals aimed at strengthening cooperation and friendship put forward by the head of state during the years of independence have been accepted by all to create eeo.
this code may be typical not only for the quasi-public, but also for the private sector, "he said.
In accordance with the policy of the head of state, we have achieved a number of successes in the economic and other spheres. "
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is a national patriotic value - civil equality, family, friendship, unity, hard work, education, triplicity.
During the program, the delegation of the Spider-Child Foundation visited the regional rehabilitation center "mother and child" for the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases.
The total share of Kazakhstan in the authorized capital is 729.3 million US dollars or 0.7293 percent.
I must participate in the election of a citizen.
Last week we held a large-scale regional seminar.
We also provide an assessment of independent change.
more than 20 exhibitors will take part in the thematic exhibition.
The chairman of the supervisory board of fisu marian Dymalsky gave a positive assessment of the preparations for the 2017 Winter Universiade.
Among them are the construction of solar and wind power plants, an innovative plant for the production of wall panels, a Kazakh-Chinese agricultural complex, an agricultural processing park and other projects.
the diversity of events taking place now in the world requires a comprehensive research analysis from different sides and, of course, requires responsibility: questions arise such as what we must do to strengthen the defense and security of our homeland, "said Erlan Karin.
in addition, investment opportunities of the countries of the world were announced.
according to him, the main feature of the Malaysian pavilion is painting the theme of the exhibition.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman of the CCA informed delegates about the kha working group at the meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
it is also necessary to reduce quantitative inequality, revise standards development programs and IT specialists, strengthen cooperation between universities and businesses, and develop distance education.
Nursultan Nazarbayev called on all states, especially countries that contribute to the entry into force of hawks, to show responsibility and take appropriate steps.
due to the amount of savings.
now our entrepreneurs are better off not raising prices.
in accordance with the document, the Kyrgyz side is provided with the transfer of firearms, cartridges, smoke grenades and boxes, spare parts and components to the s-75 missile system.
Targeted social support will be provided only to persons in need based on an assessment of their real income and living conditions.
According to him, the country's legal society was inspired by the decision of the head of state on early elections.
the main goal and task of the competition is to increase the level of physical training of military personnel, to promote a healthy lifestyle, the desire of personnel to win, to educate high physical activity and the ability to withstand neuropsychiatric disorders in wrestling conditions, to improve skills in performing various professional approaches and actions, to stimulate high professional and state training of military personnel performing military service under the contract.
to do this, it is necessary to attract strategic investors in the field of energy saving through the mechanism of energy service contracts.
Within the framework of the event, the billions met with the Chairman of the Romanian Senate, Deputy Chairman of the Romanian Chamber of Deputies k.iordake and the head of the Romanian-Kazakh Friendship Group in the Chamber of Deputies k.alexe.
As a result, the activity of Turkish entrepreneurs has increased in order to study the investment opportunities of our region.
but the time has come to increase products.
thus, prevention is ensured.
today the company's products are delivered to the domestic market, in the future it will be sold in a number of CIS countries, in the Central Asian region and Turkey.
And today there are a number of objective obstacles, for example, Western sanctions against Russia.
we reached the 25th anniversary of independence with a new Kazakh dream, the main goal of which is the implementation of Strategy-2050. "
During the meeting, Thomas Winkler noted that Almaty is a city with great potential to attract investment.
in addition, young people can offer various projects.
fourthly, it is important not to forget that the chairmen of the Kazakh courts are those who have rights.
The meeting was attended for the first time by representatives of the Pakistani, Iranian parliaments and the People's Republic of China.
our mothers and sisters are not only family envy, but also a powerful driving force that drives the whole society forward, strengthens the unity of the country, and flourishes. women - significant driving force and their achievements multiplying authority of the country .
interested structural units of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the materials of the presentation on these tools.
the creative arsenal of the Nurgaliyeva - the arrival of the President of the Kazakh SSR at the cosmodrome (1991), the flight of aubakirov and talgat musabayev currents into space, the live broadcast from the Baikonur cosmodrome.
At the same time, doping requirements should be strengthened and intensified.
The milkmaid Abdrakhmanov was chosen as the head of the deputy group, Yuri Tymoshenko as deputy, and Natalya Jumadildaeva as the secretary of the group.
early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected at the assembly of the Kazakh people, will be held on March 21 this year.
I believe that it is this direction that is a great success, "he concluded.
All party members "Nr Otan" need to work and make a further contribution to development of the country.
The objective of the convention is to establish cooperation among nationalities to ensure universal respect for human rights and equal access for all to education, as well as to eliminate any discrimination in education. the main purpose of the convention is to eliminate all kinds of discrimination in education and declare the obligement , accessibility , free of primary education .
According to him, in early 2016, new laws were adopted as part of the National Plan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the need to reach a new stage in the development of the organization in connection with the transition from a simple discussion of the problem to the adoption of concrete decisions.
however, unlike other countries, our republic has a clearer persistence and resistance to external factors.
In turn, our Turkic-speaking work has gained great experience over the past few years.
justice, as you know, triumphs in court.
a three-tier judicial system had been established.
we have recently developed the production of agricultural machinery.
During the inspection, the plant confirmed its readiness to receive a new order of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
its authors are famous architects of the Malibek gendarbek and the Ualikhan chest.
in this atmosphere comes a good squad of things.
According to the CCW, the signing of the memorandum was carried out with the help of friends of the mining association in Kazakhstan.
This year, outbound tourism has decreased for various reasons. the outbound tourism has started to fall due to various factors - devaluation and political conflicts .
the startup is developing very dynamically, we work in more than 400 cities in 70 countries.
The National Museum also plans to produce valuable gifts belonging to it at this plant.
planning and implementation of coordinated border activities, exchange of information, training, retraining and training of competent authorities.
And this time, the president clearly defined the stratagems of anti-crisis decisions.
In April this year, Kazakhstan expressed its condolences on the death from the earthquake in Ecuador.
Given the situation affected by the flood in Tajikistan, the commission recommended that the Government of Kazakhstan provide official humanitarian assistance to the country.
German experts spoke about the experience of combating terrorism in Germany, the regulatory framework for the activities of special units.
According to the results of the competition, representatives of secondary school No. 11 took 3rd place.
the regional hub and its large-scale global work will greatly support the modernization of the public service.
In his speech, Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation Dmitry Kurochkin noted that the Russian side considers today's conference as the first step to important systemic work on the formation of the "Roadmap of Kazakh-Russian investment cooperation."
28 target indicators for achieving the result in 2020 are provided for transport communications.
at the same time, inter-State relations are very closely strengthened economically and technologically, which should include humanitarian, cultural ties and historical traditions.
We warn that the open data portal provides citizens with participation in the process of considering public initiatives, regulatory legal acts and decisions of state bodies.
this is good news for hundreds of ordinary Kazakhstanis.
at the same time, it does not allow an unreasonable increase in prices for socially significant goods, "Saparbayev said, noting that roads and railways also affect the further deepening of economic ties between the two regions.
Local executive bodies should take into account the cost-effectiveness of supporting these institutions, which constantly complain, do not have any development and recovery.
Today Kazakhstan is an active member of the world community, it increases its degree of international cooperation.
this is a reform of the public service, which will be carried out on a competitive basis.
Last year, changes were made and a four-stage system began to work on January 1.
65 polling stations operate abroad. 10 international organizations have sent their observers to the elections in kazakhstan .
According to him, during the meeting of the parliament on the spot respond to modern changes.
The first project, begun for the experience of the volume "Divine Datka" in the Ryskulovsky district.
The meeting participants discussed the development of a model of organization schemes for movement through the customs territory of the EAEU.
According to the museum staff, the main reason for organizing such actions is to draw public attention to topical issues of preserving the historical and cultural heritage of our people.
The mission included the states of the entire commonwealth, except Ukraine, as well as a large group of the inter-parliamentary assembly of the CIS member states and the assembly of the parliamentary union of Russia and Belarus, "he said.
The agreement was signed by the Commissioner of EXPO-2017 rapil zhoshybayev and the Commissioner of the Polish section of EXPO-2017 Andrzej Stefan.
Currently, we are actively preparing for another competition, which will be called our country. we are preparing a special film about kazakhstan , it is unique , and shows all the possibilities of kazakhstan .
nevertheless, the company fulfilled the terms of the employment contract and the social obligations assumed.
today, mutual confidence in the international arena is being lost, this is a dangerous trend for parity.	so , the world-class experts ' opinions are of particularly important .	0,64
Of the 10 projects, 5 will be implemented in the Turkmen region, 2 in the Medeu region, 2 in the yellow, 1 in the freedom region, the report said.
the total amount of compensatory deposits to date is 171.9 billion tenge.
the exhibition attracts the attention of not only specialists in the field of defense industry, but also the media.
closing the nuclear test site in Semey, promoting interfaith cooperation through a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
if the initial stage shows a positive result, then in the second stage the project covers other zones.
We believe that the Polish country can be called an example of manageability, "said the vice chairman of the Polish Democratic Alliance party.
During the meeting, the head of state reported on the implementation of the instructions given at the meeting on the development of the city of Almaty.
For the further development of bilateral cooperation, active participation in the "park of innovative technologies" and the industrial zone is important.
manufactured clothing is of high quality and can compete with imported products, therefore the demand for products is high.
it is a phenomenon that will be renewed.
Currently, systematic work is underway to improve the quality of education in metropolitan schools.
It will be submitted to the sixth meeting of the commission of the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries on social, cultural and humanitarian issues, which will be held next year in the Kyrgyz city of Baku.
distance from one to five kilometers.
East Kazakhstanis understand its significance.
in this regard, the heads of the defense departments agreed to improve coordinated, consultative mechanisms on ensuring security and countering military threats at the borders of the Shu member states, as well as developing cooperation between defense departments in the exchange of operational information.
created an authoritative institution of independent audit, which is still working according to world standards, "the head of state said in a congratulation.
Recall that last year the country hosted the "rally kazakhstan" marathon for the first time.
In this regard, memoranda worth 15.6 million tenge have been concluded with 165 entrepreneurs of the region.
in addition, it is worth noting that the competitions on the basis of "Fort Brett" are closed and are an honorary mission among Kazakh servicemen and participants.
At the same time, according to him, without the formation of an anti-corruption culture, citizens cannot achieve the necessary result.
Note that this message is considered the 20th in a row.
According to m.nteubaev. over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has achieved great success.
having taken possession of such a platform, he does not intend to buy a tarker for himself.
The timely and religious survival of the world you sent is the direct responsibility of the train manager.
on loan funds received from second-tier banks, private entrepreneurs will spend on replenishing working capital and acquiring the necessary equipment for business development.
as a result, the geography of consumers has expanded significantly.
The exhibition is attended by more than 60 producers producing products in all sectors of the manufacturing industry of the region.
At the end of the meeting, Lord Mod praised the activities of the Academy and expressed interest in the development of bilateral cooperation, including the organization of a series of seminars on project management for heads of state bodies of Kazakhstan on the basis of the Academy.
During the bilateral meeting, entrepreneurs of the export-oriented country expressed interest in developing business in Kazakhstan.
B. Zhangurazov noted that work is currently underway to adapt the embassies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the parties expressed interest in strengthening interaction and coordination of positions within the framework of the United Nations, the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia and other multilateral formats.
a new memorandum was reached as part of a preliminary agreement between the Mayor's Office of Astana and the Atameken National Chamber on financing small and medium-sized businesses of the capital.
if applications related to legalization are designed for 100 thousand inhabitants, then in the republic their number is 426.
in turn, the scientific developments of Nazarbayev University can be tested in the data laboratory created under the committee.
This was received at the meeting by a letter of thanks on behalf of the Secretary General of the International Telecommunication Union on behalf of Mr. Howlin Zhao.
- The USSR and after its fall, Kazakhstan managed to maintain stability, while a positive assessment of the correct geopolitical situation gave a positive effect.
According to the chief economist of the Asian Development Bank, the bank is implementing the Almaty economic corridor as part of the regional economic development program in Central Asia.
Over the past 3 years, the number of tribal farms has increased by 13 units, to date there are only 42.
In addition, as part of the official meeting, the leaders of kmg and Sess signed an additional agreement on an ers contract for the implementation of 2 stages of modernization and reconstruction of the Shymkent Mnz, "aimed at increasing the capacity and deep processing of the plant."
Recall, on January 20, a decree was signed on the dissolution of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
deposit portfolio grew from 9 to 25 billion tenge, "Saparbayev noted.
More than 140 regulatory regulations regulating the activities of the corporation and the procedure for the provision of public services have been developed and are being registered by the competent authorities concerned.
Early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan will contribute to the speedy implementation of the presidential reform, "said M. Sabirov.
the head of the delegation, the head of the municipality and the Minister of Environmental Protection Muhammad abdullah al Rumayhi noted that cooperation between the two states is at a very high level in all areas, especially in the political direction, and will be strengthened in the future.
all this was done due to the fact that the head of state instructed all citizens to carry out explanatory work on this insurance.
inspections of the financial control committee according to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan carry out electronic state audit using information systems without going to the object of control.	thus , the committee audited the electronic state , without leaving on the control object using information systems .	0,65
The CEC has prepared calendar measures for the election campaign.	the cec has approved the plan of election campaigns main events .	0,65
According to him, measures are being taken to prevent corruption.	according to her , new measures are now being taken - the identification and prevention of corruption at an early stage .	0,65
Today, more than 270 enterprises with the participation of Israeli capital are registered in Kazakhstan.	today in kazakhstan there are more than 270 enterprises with israeli capital .	0,65
Recall that the determination of the estimated cost by a resource method in construction is carried out when implementing 48 steps of the National Plan "100 specific steps taking into account the experience of economically developed countries."
due to this, the number of cattle and poultry grows annually.
As a result of rational and effective economic policy, Kazakhstanis have managed, well-being has improved, "the Governor of the region said.
In Kazakhstan, social rental apartments are being implemented at the initiative of the head of state N. Nazarbayev, as the head of state said in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
if we talk about business, then because of why it was not possible to agree, national business has disagreements.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to carry out large-scale explanatory measures, to involve all parties and public organizations in this work, to call for dialogue of all citizens who expressed their position on the land issue.
at the same time, the beginning of the creation of conditions for compulsory and free education, the universal benefit of secondary education in its various forms and universal access to them.
a separate topic of conversation, the possibility of large participation in supporting the created cooperative movement.
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the Majilis sent an appeal to the Head of State with a request for early elections to the Majilis.
April 12, 2016 we celebrate the 55th anniversary of the first human flight into space. russia , particularly the state enterprise " roscosmos , " celebrates this holiday widely .
In 2015, more than 15.5 thousand apartments were commissioned, of which 4200 were built as part of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020."
New sectors of the economy created within the framework of the innovation industry have become the driving force for the development of the economy.
we have adequately withstood many tests, we are right, we have strengthened our spirit.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan talked with agricultural producers of the region.
About forty medicines have already been registered in the country, about 30 medical organizations in Egypt.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the measures taken by the country to solve these problems.
they competed in separate military-applied sports - a tournament on shooting with a small caliber rifle, on paramilitary cross-country and on overcoming various obstacles and seven.
in Zhambyl region signed a memorandum on the development of friendly relations with authorized representatives of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic in three areas.
You should not dwell on the achievements achieved in this direction, as well as deepen economic cooperation, "akim of Aktobe region said.
biathlon tournament takes place in the Austrian obertilliach.
In turn, representatives of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan expressed readiness to share their experience on the creation and implementation of Kazakhstan's export control system, as well as the use of methods of other states.
differential stations for a high-precision satellite navigation system of the Republic of Kazakhstan have been created and recognized as worthy of a state prize for organizing their production.
It was also noted that the implementation of the agreements reached will bring Kazakh-Turkmen cooperation to a qualitatively new level.
In accordance with the ratification and international practice of the Expo, privileges and privileges were fixed in order to create conditions for the presentation of the country's representative offices to the official participants of the exhibition, "said Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Rapil Zhoshybayev.
I support my president. i support my president who dissolved the majilis of the parliament and decided to hold snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels .
new opportunities. "
Austria ranks fifth in the world in the export of innovative equipment in the railway industry.
agricultural producers of the region intend to supply agricultural goods, including dairy, meat, fish, confectionery products, to the city, where the largest population of the region is located.
About 50 people took part in competitions.
the manifesto has extensive humanistic significance.
at the end of the training seminar, participants will be awarded certificates.
C. Companies in Victoria are ready to share their experience in green energy.
Among the cadsse girls, the anastasia of fire won two gold medals at a distance of 100 meters freestyle and at a distance of 50 meters swimming on the back.
in addition, with. Chakrabarti noted that the metropolitan group will move to ahko.
According to him, these agreements will help strengthen relations between entrepreneurs of the two countries.
Following the meeting of the board, Tamara Duissenova instructed the employees of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan and subordinate organizations to intensify work in all areas.
the effectiveness of the compositions was proved during the experimental sections, instrumental assessment.
they will participate in the open championships of the CIS, Belarus and Russia, "the expert added.
he also noted that our country is a multinational State in which there can be no inter-ethnic conflict.
During the meeting, it was noted about the export of Kazakh export cargo through the ports of neighbors to third countries.
It should be noted that additional payments to citizens of the country and legal entities are not taxable, "said the Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan albert rau.
The People's Democratic Party of the village won 2.01% of the vote, the National Social Democratic Party - 1.18%, the political party Unity - 0.29% of the vote.
According to the organizers of the project, the integration of the museum community of Russia and Kazakhstan will create a single Eurasian space.
all this concerns Kazakhstanis living in peace and harmony.
and the introduction of norms and so on.
Of course, these schools provide for in-depth study of Kazakh, Russian and English.
According to the results of the competition, the team of the military institute of the air defense forces took the first team place.
4 and 6 strips of i-technical category with cement-concrete coating; in the Kokshetau-Petropavlovsk section, 30 km in the North Kazakhstan region and 53 km between the Taldykorgan and Kapchagai, laid asphalt concrete pavement of the II-technical category; 80 km along a rocky garden highway. asphalt concrete pavement ii - technical category; on the Omsk-Pavlodar-Maykapshagay highway, the last 59 km between Omsk and Pavlodar were completed; on the Zhezkazgan-Petropavlovsk highway, the construction of a 15 km road bypassing the city of Satpaev will be completed.
The company has 150 years of experience in the production of various products, the most necessary for the industry of carbonate, dolomite limestone and industry.
This year, the region will continue to work in this direction, we will sign 4.5 thousand memoranda and save more than 120 thousand jobs.	in 2015 , about 5 thousand memorandums with employers were signed in the framework of anti-crisis measures .	0,65
not only with his unlimited service to his homeland, but also with a sacred work for the whole of Kazakhstan in every house of an independent country, preserving peace and tranquillity, always having the ability to be the best and responsible.
You have shown the whole world that in Kazakhstan there are strong athletes who are able to adequately defend the country's honor in Dubir countries, "the statement said.
the meeting of the commission is held in open mode.
unfortunately, this has not yet been proven.
it was opened on the basis of "public consent" under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, the Mayor of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov at a hardware meeting in the capital's akimat focused on the timing of consideration of appeals and the quality of answers.
the signing of an additional agreement to housing construction savings agreements (hereinafter - the agreement) will begin on February 8 and will last until June 1, 2016.
The Prime Minister stressed that the Government of Kazakhstan is making every effort to mitigate external negative factors and informed about the measures implemented by the government in the framework of institutional reforms aimed at the sustainable development of the country.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the similarity of strategic goals outlined in the long-term development strategies of the two countries.
Participants were able to ask questions directly to the minister, Almaty universities and journalists took advantage of this opportunity.
made it easy to resolve many issues.
N. Abdibekov noted that planned measures for the electric power industry are being implemented in the region.
issues of development of programs for the formation of the common gas market of the union were also discussed.
by the way, under the program "altyn asyk," "kulan" the implementation of the 100% plan is controlled, in connection with which we increased the number of cattle and horses.
we will confidently pursue the fulfillment of our Kazakh dream and prosperity of Kazakhstan! "- says in the text of the article.
from now on, at the stage of designing future residential buildings, the proposals of ZhSK and its customers will be taken into account.
For this reason, deputies initiated early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
training was conducted by employees of the cosmonaut training center.
monitoring shows that after the extended meeting, the number of applicants increased from 294 to 485 and the number of legalized property increased from 129 to 274. monitoring indicates that after the extended meeting , the number of applications increased from 294 to 485 , as well as the number of legalized objects from 129 to 274 .
According to him, representatives of the mission took part in the closure of polling stations, counting of votes, drawing up a protocol on the results of voting, when counting votes, they did not reveal violations.
the total amount is 342 million 800 thousand tenge. "
Currently, fiery youth with new views are actively participating in the processes of renewal of the country.
Currently, on various sections of the railway, medium road repairs, replacement of rail lines and renewal of old rails are being carried out.
in addition, Saturday is an important day for retraining teachers, "said the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Nazarbayev, noting the importance of introducing a 5-day academic week.
currently, the oil refining industry accounts for only 1.2% of the country's GDP.
R.Kem also noted that there is a crisis and instability in the world.
And the number of private enterprises and organizations, as well as residential buildings built by the population itself, is 7.4 million square meters.
The issues considered concerned norms without duties, individual duties on electric vehicles, preferential payments of citizens.
in addition, the law of armed conflicts is currently being trained by the peacekeeping battalion, and a "code of conduct for a warrior in battle" has been issued in Kazakh and Russian.
In 2007, the assembly received the status of a constitutional body and received constitutional guaranteed parliamentary representation - the right to elect 9 deputies to the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Ye.Dyrissov noted that representatives from 11 international organizations and 19 countries from the CEC will follow the elections.
During the talks, the issue of further expansion of the partnership in the transport and logistics sphere was considered.
It is planned that the plant, financed by 1.4 billion tenge, will produce 2 thousand pieces of equipment per year.
in addition, effective measures should be taken to increase transit capacity and reduce border control time in order to create favourable conditions for carriers.
it also highlights the importance of appropriate corporate governance and strong management.
nevertheless, it should benefit economically and politically in the future.
3335 deputies of maslikhats of all levels are elected to local authorities, of which 550 are elected to the regional, 625 to the city and 2160 to the district maslikhats.
For the first time, the meeting was attended by representatives of the armed forces of partner States and observers of the Shu dialogue, including future members of Shu, India and Pakistan.
Following the meeting, banks became interested in the initiatives and proposals of the national holding.
As a result of the appeal of the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the Secretary General, the manifesto received the status of an official document of the General Assembly and the UN Security Council.
Recall that the XV Summer Paralympic Games will be held in Brazilian Rio de Janeiro from September 7-18.
Note that the training began immediately after the signing of the memorandum.
That is, it is necessary to reduce the credit rate and ensure long-term financing.
in a number of regions, namely Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Aktobe, Almetyev regions and Almaty, the representation of women in local representative bodies reached 30%.
During his next working visit, B. Baibek noted that in the Turksian region all conditions are created to improve the life of the population.
the commission under the local executive bodies for legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan received 81,828,0 applications (declarations) for legalization of immovable property totaling 272 billion tenge.
Participants also learned about national policies on energy efficiency, alternative energy development and the overall provision of modern energy sources.
according to the Constitution, human and civil rights and freedoms are restricted only by law.
candidates for deputies of the regional, capital and Almaty city maslikhats for speeches on the election program from TV channels will be allocated 70 thousand tenge, candidates for deputies of the city and district maslikhats - 36 thousand tenge.
the purpose of the project is to identify environmental disturbances and avoid violation of taste when performed by citizens.
many Germans from your country, currently living in Germany, with great respect recall the warm relations and friendly moods of the Kazakh people in those difficult times, "the letter says.
The annual capacity of the project will be 6974 million tenge while processing 18.0 thousand tons of zinc and lead.
Yerlan Sovetovich Baudarbek-Kozhataev was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Japan, dismissed from the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Singapore, from combining the duties of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Australia, New Zealand;
it provides for institutions for the prevention of corruption, expertise of internal and external threats, anti-corruption education and education, etc.
For 6 years, research has been carried out on the phenomenon of leadership of the President of Kazakhstan.
The average annual number of recipients of this type of benefits amounted to 142.3 thousand people.
but we do not have the opportunity to transfer the energy that is in Kazakhstan.
The conditions of the program and the procedure for its implementation are being developed, "the mayor of the capital said.
According to the CEC member, since 1995, 8830 international observers and representatives of foreign gardens have been created in Kazakhstan.
He also noted that attention should be paid to the budget and the field of cash work.
the first two steps are the verification of knowledge according to the legislation and the assessment of personal quality.
There is also a share of V.Putin in this, since he noticed the potential of Eurasian integration.
So, the party "Nұr Otan" nominated 25 candidates for deputies of the maslikhat of Astana.
Also in the republic, South Kazakhstan region gives 100% of cotton production.
Detailed and full implementation of the agreements reached in the new phase.
In addition, it is important that women are able to express their opinion in a corruption conflict, "said R. Sarsembayev.
in this category, the weight fins of silas distinguished themselves.
As a member of the KHA noted, all the tasks set by the head of state are aimed at the unity of the people.
We were convinced that our domestic enterprises have high potential, "he said.
According to the head of the region, large-scale events are being held in the region to fulfill the 61st step of "100 specific steps."
In general, over the past year, 11,421 inspections were carried out by state labor inspectors.
new tools are being developed, measures are being taken, in the long term they will be very effective for the country's economy.
Kazakh diplomats presented the Kazakh model of interreligious and interethnic tolerance to the audience during the round table.
the parties will continue mutually beneficial communication on the transportation of products produced by enterprises of the two countries by rail.
The head of the region also noted that other regions are aimed at agriculture.
There are three people on our team.
our team will have to demonstrate its skill in the international arena and meet with the best specialists of the protection troops in other countries, "the servicemen say.
At the same time, as the Deputy Chairman of the Majilis noted, the participation of deputies of the Majilis in international and inter-parliamentary events will be carried out according to a special schedule.
The congress is supported by UNESCO, the international federation of library associations and institutions (ifla) and the Eurasian Association of Librarians (eca).
The document was prepared jointly with the secretariat to ensure cooperation on the creation of a customs administration, the press service of the ECE reports.
Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kuatzhan Valiev expressed his opinion regarding silver stamps:
Our army athletes received licenses for the upcoming Olympic Games thanks to their successful performance at international competitions.
in accordance with this agreement, in the course of intra-corporate transitions, citizens of one state in accordance with a written agreement on intra-corporate transition temporarily transfer to a representative office, branch, subsidiary or affiliated organizations of this legal entity created in the territory of another state.
59 laws meeting world standards have been adopted, more than 400 regulatory legal acts have been prepared.
As part of the implementation of the Roadmap 2020, since the beginning of the year, 2505 services have been provided to entrepreneurs, 1,554 small and medium-sized businesses have been supported.
From 1999 to 2001 he worked in state bodies in the field of foreign economic relations.
this will allow domestic companies to become competitive within the world trade organization.
its main goal is to lay in memory of youth the national heritage and culture of their country.
In his message, the head of state outlined the important events held last year, summarizes them and identifies the tasks facing the country for the coming year.
the school program has long been tested, but we can make our adjustments to avoid problems in the health sector, "said Rinat Abit.
Of the innovations introduced in the land code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I would say about the change in the conditions for the purchase of land. i would like to mention the provision of favorable conditions for the purchase of land plots which are rented .
According to the akim of the Abai region of the Musapirbekov tursyngaz, last year the growth of meat production amounted to 14, 5% and reached 20,234 tons.
following these consultations.
The state language was studied by children, students of schools from 1st to 11th grade.
Also, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan left an entry in the book at the Center of Honored Guests.
Kazakhstan has proved to the whole world that it is now a truly democratic country, holds such transparent, legitimate elections and will be multi-party.
Kazakhstan should raise an issue that interests all countries of the world and become a driver.	kazakhstan needs to try to involve the world into the conversation on the theme that has importance for everybody and kazakhstan can play an important role in that conversation .	0,65
and the total area of ​ ​ the partnership is 0.20 hectares.	furnaces were purchased in russia .	0,65
Interaction with the United Nations development programme comprises three main vectors.
one of the co-authors of this development is the head of state N. Nazarbayev.
especially with regard to meat and dairy products.
The Deputy Prime Minister also noted that in the next 2-3 years, due to the current economic situation, it is impossible to equip enterprises with material and technical equipment.
The new Public Service Act, which, in conjunction with and in conjunction with the new anti-corruption legislation, defines the basic framework for the updated model of public service and the way forward to strengthen the effectiveness of the entire public administration system.
Kazakhstan National Drug Form was created in order to improve the results of treatment of patients and ensure access of health care workers to up-to-date, full-fledged, reliable information on medicines. in may this year , the national drug form will be available in state and russian languages on the link www.knf.kz , " tsoy said .
R. According to Vasilenko, about 500 nuclear weapons tests were carried out at the Semipalatinsk test site of Kazakhstan.
the first national prize in the field of tourism is aimed at stimulating the development of tourism, recognizing good companies and creating a trend of popular routes.
100 specific steps. "
long-term initiative of sosa-cola 5yu20.
at the end of the probationary period, the judge must be approved at a plenary session of the regional court. after the expiry of the probationary period a judge will have to be approved at the plenary session of the regional court .
the conclusion of the memorandum will positively affect the development of integration processes in the field of air transport and will contribute to a more effective solution of the functional tasks of the commission.
According to him, the protocol is aimed at further effective cooperation between the tax authorities of Kazakhstan and Belarus.
now you don't have to hire a customs broker and wait for him at the airport.
As the head of state noted, "it is not in vain that the plan of the nation comes to the 25th anniversary of independence.
The development of the new field is also expected to quadruple natural gas production and sales over the next ten years.
Recall that the national competition "Mereili Rects" is aimed at modernizing moral values ​ ​ and disseminating a positive model of family and marriage, improving the status of the family.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the recent visit to the capital has brought Kazakh and Japanese relations to a qualitatively new level, which indicates that the two governments are actively working in terms of implementing the agreements reached today.
The Council is an advisory and coordinating body composed of a public representative and a private sector.
changes in legislation in the field of electricity provide for the provision of long-term guarantees to energy-producing organizations of return on investment in modernization, reconstruction, increase and renewal of fixed assets through the introduction of the "unique buyer" model.
the development of this programme, "which are also interested in participating.
The Supreme Court of Kazakhstan has carried out a lot of work within the framework of the National Plan.
both Czech ambassadors, ready to invest in small and medium-sized businesses in Aktobe region, and local administrations. czech businessmen ready to invest in the development of small and medium-sized businesses in aktobe region .
The meeting participants exchanged views on topical issues of the international and regional agenda.
In honor of the holiday, the main Christmas tree of the country with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan will be lit in the capital.
The event was attended by representatives of the authorities, heads of transport control bodies and chairmen of customs authorities of the EAEU countries, the press service of the commission reports.
we chose the right way to preserve the unity and harmony of all ethnic groups living under the same shanyrak.
now the work belongs to the government and all executive bodies of the country, as well as the business community.
speed, physical endurance, accurate shooting.
the first results of the transformation of the fund and its portfolio companies were also studied.
The Government of Kazakhstan approved and gradually implements a plan of measures to ensure the rights and improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities for 2012-2018.
within the framework of this project, a system of qualification of participants in terms of the level and quality of services provided by the object has been developed.
Hundreds, thousands of people were awarded the highest state award of Kazakhstan.
but there was an archaeological study for students, for which we ourselves sought funds.
this is 83.7% of the total housing commissioning in the republic, "said R. Sklyar.
that is, for the development of the economic sector.
in Kazakhstan, this action is being held for the third time.
7 social facilities were opened in the Tulkubas region and transferred for the benefit of the country.
higher salaries for state employees, manifestation of non-verbal evidence of the social criterion for carrying out reforms.
Strategic plans of state bodies have a large burden on the number of activities and indicators of the budget plan.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan this year is very unusual, since it is covered in transition periods. this year 's presidential address to the people of kazakhstan is special because it takes place in the special conditions of the new economic reality , political instability - all this puts additional pressure on kazakhstan .
there are good initiatives in which we must advance them in the context of the integration process.
if prices in the market fall from the prices established under the contract, then the association conducts white wheat "Food Corporation."
It is planned that the company will be launched in 2018 and will produce 5 thousand tons of raw materials per year.
The main goal of this project is to reduce operating costs using new methods of using production and technological links.
if you want to become a high-level engineer, you need to know knowledge and science.
In addition, the working group explained the conditions for obtaining a place on the water at a special seminar for metropolitan professionals.
In general, we will assist in strengthening the security of the countries of Central Asia, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense.
And the events within the framework of this action started on November 20 this year in all regions of the country, in the cities of Almaty and the capital.
the main goal is the formation of a new legal environment, which, withstanding the global economic crisis, not only develops the economy of the state, but also makes society breakthrough.
Elections in the country, of course, will be the beginning of a new one. elections in the country are always a new stage , which will be the beginning of something new and perfect .
As the expert noted, we are talking about extending the lease of land to foreign citizens.
The conference was attended by the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Israel dulat Kuanyshev, Deputy Director for Scientific Work of the National Museum, General Director of RSU "General Institute of Genetics and Cytology" Leila Zhansugirova, traveler Norwegian author of direct heierdal, etc.
The Prosecutor General's Office takes an active part in the implementation of the "100 steps" plan of the nation, approved by the head of state.
The Secretary of State noted that the President of Kazakhstan from the first days of independence creates all the conditions for the happy childhood of our children, getting a good education, good health, care and attention of adults, the press service of the akorda reports.
The Minister of Finance also noted that similar situations occur in banks.
form of government - republic; the capital is Monrovia.
both spacecraft were launched in 2014 and are now operating normally.
According to the director, investors should not only extract land reserves, but also introduce a variety of minerals into them and enrich the fertility of the land.
Hotline mode from 8 to 19 hours Monday to Friday.
Recall that in January 29, the XVII Extraordinary Congress of the Nur Otan Party was held in the capital under the chairmanship of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The annual meeting was attended by Kazakh, international experts who shared their thoughts on the transformation of the fund's group of companies and expected results.
How interested are Kazakhstani companies?
they can be created from two sources.
with insufficient property guarantees of the entrepreneur to the bank. "
the presentation was attended by famous Kazakhstani cyclists.
the holiday of independence is approaching. independence day is coming ...
Transfer of land management issues from the Ministry of National Economy to the Ministry of Agriculture.
the holding of early presidential elections was adopted within the framework of the constitution. being a citizen , i hope that the new deputies will work on the quality of the legal framework , involve more parties to promote freedom of speech .
all this is accompanied by whole states and huge budgetary resources, as well as crowding out private investment and initiatives.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in mechanisms to combat terrorism, separatism and extremism, illegal trafficking in weapons and drugs, and cross-border crime were discussed.
On May 4, B. Beknazarov took part in meetings in the Department of Internal Affairs and the Prosecutor's Office of Zhambyl region.
today we are facing the establishment of the Asia-Pacific Union. the next sco session will take place in june .
the parties agreed to establish a working group that would facilitate the resolution of emerging issues in this area.
This document is aimed at identifying and returning violators located on the border of countries, "said the acting Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Marat Demeus.
I really liked that there are a lot of young people, a lot of women in the commission.
the previous week, additional meetings will be held with the production industry, oil enterprises and processing facilities, "he said.
From January 1, 2016, a new version of the coat of arms will be introduced.	according to him , the manufacturers were given time to introduce this new standard of the national emblem .	0,65
only the state secretary Mr. Abdykalikova is the ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the republic in Kazakhstan, the ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Djibouti in Kazakhstan of the ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the republic of Nicaragua in Kazakhstan Juan Ernesto Vasquez, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Albanian republic in Kazakhstan accepted credentials from Armen Gazioni and the ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Bahraini kingdom in Kazakhstan Ibrahim Yusuf Abdullah of al-abdulla.	mr. kozo kpoku alaba appointed as ambassador of the republic of ghana , ali mohammed kamil of the republic of djibouti , juan ernesto vasquez araya - the republic of nicaragua , ibrahim yousuf abdullah al-abdullah - kingdom of bahrain and mr. arben gazioni - ambassador of the republic of albania .	0,65
development of cooperation in the field of export of Kazakh products to the Iranian market (metal products, building materials, gentlemen, grain, etc.).	according to him , in the market of iran , there is a demand for some tens goods on which the import of iran in 2014 made 6 billion dollars , world export of kazakhstan on these positions today - 1,9 billion dollars , export of kazakhstan to iran - 498,5 million dollars .	0,65
at these events, Kazakhstan's positions on various issues and ongoing reforms in the country were outlined.	participants of the two summits were briefed on kazakhstan 's stance on various problems and reforms conducted in the country .	0,65
the state is taking unprecedented steps in our history towards privatization and economic liberalization.	the government is embarking on unprecedented measures of privatization and economic liberalization .	0,65
the teaching staff, which currently works at the university, is improving its language level.
all previous plans are now being implemented.
for achievements in operational, combat, mobilization training and general service in nominations, passing pennants were determined and awarded.
farmers, especially spring farmers, plan to increase the area of ​ ​ grain and cotton land.
Goar Balayan, head of the personnel management department of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan arrived with him.
At the national level, Buudb provided timely assistance for the professionalization of the state apparatus, "he said.
we will continue to work successfully.
The renewal of the composition of power is in the interests of the country and the people.	the current majilis composition helped to implement measures included in these programs ,  - the maslikhat deputy said .
98 of them are elected by party lists, 9 - from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Also, certain articles of the concept provide for taxation of revenue and other contributions of artists.
Today, within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum, we are holding a panel session on the theme "energy of the future," which will be held next year.
Akmaral Sharipbaevna also noted that in the future it is planned to develop and gradually implement an integrated model of the organization of medical care taking into account the current state of health of the population and the projected growth of non-communicable diseases.
Today, the Easter holiday inspires people to do good deeds, mercy and care for others, gives people joy and peace, helps to maintain feelings of hope, trust and authenticity in their hearts.
Another direction is not the provision of the entire hospital to public administration, but the transfer of only the service part. another trend is an opportunity not to pass the whole administration of hospital to the state .
The strategic decisions and actions taken in those days had become important and positive.
we are trying to create high-quality furniture, our technologies in production meet modern requirements, and German, Italian and Spanish equipment.
The main task of a forum - increase in civil activity of the population in realization of five institutional reforms, the national patriotic idea "The m g_l_k ate".
The address of the head of state during the congress is current.	a lot of culture and science , and all members have achieved in this life is very good results ,  - she said .
That is, at that time, the post-war shock was going through, and highly qualified personnel were needed.
in particular, the rules for harmonizing national legislation in the field of state supervision; on ensuring food security, requirements not established by uniform technical regulations; International treaties on the elimination of barriers to trade with third countries.
In addition, the parties did not ignore the issues of international inter-parliamentary relations.
At the end, he turned to voters on the channel.
it is still being purchased from Russia, "the managing director, member of the board of the Baiterek holding Hamit said at a press conference in the Central Communications Service under the President of Kazakhstan on Friday.
then every five years, as well as through a competition for the post of chairman of the court and chairman of the judicial board of the Supreme Court, "said B. Makulbekov.
nevertheless, industry and production also occupy a leading position in oil and natural gas production.
In addition, during the meeting, the parties discussed the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of nuclear energy and exchanged views on the petrochemical industry.
To date, 227 children have been registered in the center, about 200 are taking antiretroviral therapy.
Rector of the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies Ulan Baizhanov familiarized the participants with the specifics of the course program and called on all students to work actively and productively, the report said.
The final will be held in the capital on March 16.
members of the assembly in parliament should be representatives not only of their ethnic group, but also representatives representing the interests of the entire Kazakh people. the assembly deputies represent the interests of all the peoples of kazakhstan .
in general, the adopted changes are aimed at forming a criminal system that meets the characters of democratic, legal states, the senator noted.
in this regard, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has developed a special plan for the prevention and elimination of forest and steppe fires during the fire hazard period.
the document is anti-crisis.
As part of the event, guests and participants will be able not only to get acquainted with the exposition of new developments of defense sector enterprises, but also to evaluate their combat capabilities in action.
this is one of the most anticipated measures of gardening and civil society, politics.
He is one of those athletes in whom the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan places hopes on the central sports club of the army and adequately represents Kazakhstan on the world stage.
court sessions are held with the participation of participants, many representatives seek to conduct this process, "said E. Maksyut.
in particular, China, Hong Kong and other regions of Kazakhstan.
The Council of Rectors was created on May 10, 2015 by order of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 288 in order to improve the higher education system, solve topical issues of training future specialists and strengthen relations between universities for the development of domestic science.
first of all, this concerns the development of entrepreneurial education in Kazakhstan, "he said.
r.mammadov noted that he is making every effort to strengthen political, economic ties between Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, establish close relations in the field of education, science and culture.
streets pass in the direction of the immortal regiment, hold photos of grandfathers in their hands and recall.
the parties agreed to continue the practice of inter-ministerial consultations on various issues of mutual interest.
today there is instability due to frequent changes in the economy.
transport communication problems will be resolved in the near future.
Until 2022, it is planned to achieve a large number of results.
He also said that the issue of joining the organization will be actively discussed in the ministries and departments of the country, the report said.
he, in turn, is the national operator of high-precision satellite navigation.
According to the berdybek saparbayev, the staff of the local police service is 1260.
entrepreneurs realized that without marketing knowledge, it will not be easy to resist the market, "said K. Aralbekov.
thus, the average competition for one deputy mandate is already more than 2 people, "he said.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan daulet Batrashev briefed representatives of Romanian business circles on the implementation of the program "Nұr zhol," "Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps, "Kazakhstan-2050."
a memorandum of understanding will soon be signed by the Minister for Customs Cooperation and the Secretary-General of the World Customs Organization kunio Mikuria.
since 2007, only certain elements of dual education have been introduced in Kazakhstan.	he has noted that in 2015 , 348 colleges in kazakhstan were covered by the dual education system .	0,66
the new deputy corps is tasked with fulfilling its tasks.	now , the new composition of the deputies will be responsible for controling and improving the performance of the tasks .	0,66
As a result, 100% of children aged 3 to 6 years received preschool education.	as a result , the coverage of children with pre-school programs amounted to 100 % of the total number of children aged 3 to 6 years .	0,66
According to him, voters of all regions of Kazakhstan, the capital, cities of Almaty will be covered. according to the procedure every fifth voter will be polled , " a. sadvokassova has said .
Therefore, I take all the measures taken as the right decision, "said the newspaper editor.
At the end of the meeting, the Governor of the region drew the attention of school principals to the improvement of the educational institution.
But, as you know, the Majilismen proposed the head of state to hold early elections to the Majilis.
During the event, the summit delegates participated in an interactive discussion on the issue of taking into account the threat of nuclear terrorism.
It is also necessary to exhibit rare exhibits in museums in Kazakhstan in the hermitage.
electoral work has not yet begun.
In total, the camp is planned to spend five seasons.
it is needed to maintain stability.
today, a sustainable global security system is a key example of stability.
25th anniversary of the independence of the republic.
Particular attention was paid to the department of the book depository, which holds the main fund of more than 6.6 million publications.
in this hostel lives the temporary composition of the national university of defense, that is, undergraduates.
According to him, now in the country there is an opportunity to hold early elections of deputies.
For the renewal of parliament, the voice of each of us is important. "
this will make it possible in times of crisis not to delay the electoral campaign for a long period of time and significantly reduce the budget costs for the organization and conduct of elections.
In his preface to the participants of the meeting, the chairman of the primary party organization noted the relevance of the topic of the development of culture and sports in the country.
2nd place was taken by the team of Pavlodar State Pedagogical Institute, 3rd - Kazakh National Agrarian University and North Kazakhstan State University named after M. Ozybayev.
The Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan Vladimir Shkolnik, opening the Paris forum "Energy of the Future - 2015," noted that the time has come to discuss the relationship of the world to energy.
this message is the most important, because it arouses interest among every Kazakhstani.
the construction of a polyclinic will contribute to improving medical care for Kostanai residents, undergoing a full course of treatment and preventing travel outside the city.
According to him, these indicators are a good pledge for financing at the beginning of next year.
It will also contribute to an increase in freight traffic between the two states, "said A. Issekeshev.
my goal is to devote my entire life to the study of Botai culture.
the disease usually begins in a very serious condition.
In addition, he noted that in Kazakhstan there is a need to invest other crops of agriculture, such as oilseeds.
2 . Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (Iasi) This year, Given the 20th anniversary of the recognition as open for signature and the 25th anniversary of the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site in Kazakhstan, we reaffirm our decision to expand the zone of non-use of nuclear weapons until their elimination and reaffirm our continued position to achieve the early entry into force of Iasi.
landing, reconnaissance in mountainous terrain, transfer of fighters and weapons from one place to another - these are the main actions of the participants in the landing biathlon.
In addition, the participants of the session will familiarize themselves with the results of the projects and discuss the prospects for the implementation of recommendations to go to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a new concept of Kazakh identity and unity has been approved. the fourth reform involves six steps .
people expect a global solution from us.
here you can hear different opinions.
We will remind, in the city of Aktobe took place the third championship of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Greco-Roman and free-style wrestling among hard of hearing athletes.
This law entered into force on January 1, 2016. this law came into force on january 1 , 2016 .
Today, these agreements began to be implemented thanks to constructive cooperation between the Six States, Iran and a number of other countries.
Kha and representatives of the "civil alliance" expressed a desire to confirm and successfully implement the projects of the fund.
this will speed up the study of the Kazakh language.
We hope that our neighbours will not be indifferent.
excavation graduates study at the graduate school of Moscow State University and, accordingly, continue their studies at the graduate school on excavations of graduates of Moscow State University.
borrowed funds are distributed among the members of the association for spring field and harvesting operations, in the form of ready-made inventory, centrally paid by the priority association.
Deputies of the parliament of the V convocation made a worthy contribution to the reform of the legislative support of the head of state.
Kazakhstan is becoming even more attractive for foreign investors and partners.
the consequences of the world crisis experienced by all countries of the world required the world community to find new approaches and ways to achieve economic growth.
The presidential decree on holding meetings and early elections to maslikhats of all levels is a timely decision. the signing of the decree on the dissolution and early elections - is timely solution .
The head of state noted that this ceremony will be a new milestone in their personal diplomatic stories.
Including sown about 2.5 thousand large seedlings of trees (red Christmas tree, Tatar tree, pine, spruce, birch, oak, pyramidal poplar, outskirts, etc.).
in this regard, the internal affairs bodies are entrusted with great responsibility for the fulfillment of tasks to protect public order and ensure an adequate level of public and road safety.
Following the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev instructed the responsible state bodies and airport leaders to pay special attention to aviation safety issues, in particular, to install modern inspection equipment at passenger terminals.
Deputies of the Majilis will exchange views on topical issues identified in the agenda, as well as on issues of the international scientific and practical conference, which will discuss priority areas for strengthening collective and international security in the format of discussion.
this project, in turn, will improve reliability and provide stable electricity and thermal energy to the population, as well as provide industrial enterprises of the city and the regional center with hot water throughout the year.
This visit, which will be closer to the African continent, is important not for our country, but for our entire region.
however, production volumes did not decrease.
sometimes allowed some cases.
According to him, today most women go to politics and are engaged in social activities.
Noting the growing role of parliamentary diplomacy, the head of the Senate of Kazakhstan drew the attention of colleagues to specific areas of cooperation that need to be studied by the world parliamentary community.
it can be said with pride that the results of the Alma-Ata negotiations formed the basis of the agreement adopted two years later.
The military police are entrusted with important tasks of maintaining law and order, which is well respected by the military police in accordance with the principle of "honesty, initiative, assistance and order."
personnel turns are a real honey sour cream.
The head of the Egyptian cabinet was presented with 1 volume of the book Ilyas Esenberlin "nomads," first published in Arabic.
Universiade-2017 in Almaty will be the largest sporting event in the history of Kazakhstan.
Last year, the 20th anniversary of the assembly was celebrated.
his priority, registered with the financial police.
As T. Okhlopkova noted, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan presented a list of accredited representatives of the garden.
however, as a representative of kaztransgaz, I would like to note that at the current meeting the issue was raised.
presented its new technologies on the eve of World Environment Day. on the eve of world environment day , arnasay village as one of the green villages of kazakhstan is demonstrating its latest technology .
In addition, according to the CEO, a new code on subsoil and subsoil users is being developed today.
for registration work, we are ready to work with condides provided by the regional council of deputies. we are ready to welcome candidates and to carry out further work .
The message will continue projects of the gas industry on the use of the fuel and lubricants mechanism. to achieve the tasks set in president 's address on the application of the ppp the project of the gas industry will be continued .
subsoil users make such a decision taking into account their financial potential, "said A. Magauov.
According to the minister, the introduction of the auction will, on the one hand, make transparent and understandable in the process of selecting projects and investors, and on the other, set rates on the most effective technologies and projects.
Following the results of the bilateral meeting, interest was expressed in further deepening cooperation across the entire spectrum of trade and economic integration.
He commended the level of multilateral strategic partnerships between the two countries.
As the business university noted, in general, light industry does not need as much money as in the oil or engineering industry, and primarily the creation of jobs in light industry.
the company will create more than 100 jobs.
grandmother taught to knit textiles.
how many times it can be said.
these funds will be used to strengthen the material and technical base of existing sports institutions, to carry out major repairs.
if the entrepreneur honestly earns, none of us can limit his expenses.
in addition, the French chain of carrefour stores opens its first store in Almaty in the first quarter of the year.
After the war, he worked as a history teacher and school director.
Also, 11-year-old Arzhana Bisenbaeva was awarded a "letter of thanks" by the akim of the region.
entry of our enterprises into foreign markets.
manufacturing output increased by 0.8%.
At the same time, this, of course, will allow us to quickly begin to implement the most relevant reforms and will give a new impetus to anti-crisis measures.
we plan to show that without new technologies, efficient management, you can get a large product.
It is also nice that jewelry takes part in our competition, even sculptors who make special figurines, memorable gifts.
all this is a historical artifact.
although elections have, first, political significance, but the financial situation is appropriate. if there are reasons to hold the combined in order to save money , the elections are allowed .
therefore, there should be no situations.
child care, family planning.
I can honestly say that the whole of Kazakhstan will be a fan when you enter the arena.
According to the chief doctor, representatives of different industries should be in the new composition of the meeting.
Thus, the problem of emergency and three-shift schools will be solved as soon as possible.
the parties welcome Kazakhstan's continued position on replacing ivg.1m and igr reactors with spare fuel and returning used steam fuel from these research reactors to Russia after the completion of their conversion.
1 direction of the program - under the mechanism of subsidizing part of the remuneration rate "support of new business initiatives" 5 projects totaling 24.0 million tenge, 2 projects for infrastructure endurance 1377.0 tenge, 1 project for 3mn tenge, which received a grant.
the main efforts in the ground forces, in accordance with the nature of modern conflicts and armed conflicts, will focus on further improving the combat and mobilization readiness of military units and formations, improving the quality of work with personnel, strengthening military discipline and law and order.
Note that the event is held annually and after the celebration of a great victory.
It should be noted that 90 people take part from Kazakhstan.
According to the Minister, today, within the framework of public-private partnership, there is an opportunity to expand sports clubs and youth sports schools, provide them with sports halls, and install the necessary installations.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that B. Obama's initiative to hold the summit should be continued, since the issue has not yet been resolved.
this position will be taken by the chairman of the Armenian cultural center "Kentron."
secondly, a person should have a civil position.
Now we are going through a difficult period.
To this end, the creation of a training center at the plant is the most effective and convenient solution, "said I. Urbanets.
antituberculous drugs and new antiviral drugs produced by the plant, reducing blood pressure, reducing blood sugar.
Twice as many voters came here as in the 80-90s, "he said."
in addition, a meeting was held with representatives of the prefecture of Lyon and representatives of the French company.
According to Saparbayev, the main concepts and directions of interregional cooperation between Aktobe and Kyzylorda region should be developed within a month.
We exchanged thoughts about the election commission and in general, during the 20-day control, good reviews about the election commission developed. we have exchanged views on the election campaign on the basis of 20-day observation , and we have a positive impression .
we advocate that Russia and the United States agree on a ceasefire in Syria.	in view of lifting sanctions from iran , i hope that our trade relations will be raised to a higher level .	0,66
in addition to the regional center, representatives of the center will work at each polling station.	the representatives of the center will work at every polling station in the region .	0,66
thus, the amount paid by the Russian Federation for the lease of the paligon is reduced in proportion to the lease of land.	thus , the amount paid for the lease of the russian federation , the landfill is reduced in proportion to the output from the land lease .	0,66
the circulation period is designed for 1.5-2 years.	a cash turnover cycle is designed for 1.5-2 years .	0,66
he also noted the need to further develop cooperation in the border zone and deepen inter-parliamentary cooperation of the EAEU member states.	he also noted the need to further develop the cross-border cooperation and deepen the inter-parliamentary cooperation of the eaeu member states .	0,66
When I start talking, young people have a lot of questions.	as soon as our kazakhstan entrusted to a high rank to hold this exhibition , i immediately began to work among the youth and veterans .	0,66
Following the meeting, R.Zhoshybayev and R.Shents signed an agreement on Austria's participation in the exhibition.	following the meeting , r. zhoshybayev and r. schenz signed an agreement on the participation of austria in the exhibition .	0,66
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels will be held.	it must respond to the events in the world ,  ye.musatayev has added .
Since the beginning of this year, 16 fires with a total area of ​ ​ 285 hectares have been registered on the territory of the forest fund, the amount of damage is 1.7 million tenge.	the damage exceeds 230 million tenge .	0,66
the Investment Ombudsman is one way to implement these measures.	one of the tools to support investors is ombudsman .	0,66
The profession of a driver is one of the most important and responsible positions in railway transport.	job locomotive is one of the most important and responsible in rail transport .	0,66
According to the vice-president, the program of the head of state "Nұr zhol" provides for the creation of support sections of the transport logistics infrastructure network in the Eurasian continental corridor.
The plan was formed in order to coordinate the methodological and informational interaction of the authorized bodies of the parties in the field of statistics.
with successful implementation of the project, it provides in full domestic commercial oil and fat production with raw materials and high-quality mater materials.
When commissioning a workshop capable of producing 750 thousand square meters. meters of products per year, about 30 local residents will be employed for permanent work.	the workshop will be able to produce annually 750 thousand square meters of production and will employ about 30 people .	0,66
That is, the saryarka under construction, "said the akim of the region.
The reform of the current subsidy system, the improvement of insurance in crop production and the introduction of the system of electronic grain receipts will help to increase the effectiveness of state support in 2016, "said E. Dosaev.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, e. Ashykbaev held a briefing on the international initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev for ambassadors of the member countries of the African group, as well as for Latin American and Caribbean countries.
According to the press service, the document will provide comprehensive approaches to the regulation of business and activities on the basis of a unified framework for all states of the Union to regulate trade in services.
for what we read Bolashakovites.
I think they should be supported.
firstly, children of socially vulnerable, vulnerable and low-income residents, orphans receive gifts.
Participants of the meeting discussed such topics as the role of modern women, special attention is paid to raising children, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reports.
for example, ore, gold, diamonds.
agni, as we see, the number of countries in the development of global regional solutions is growing.
At the same time, the Majilis speaker noted that integration with the eeo, shu, and economic belt of the silk road are important mechanisms for the development of partnership.
The Chairman of the Majilis congratulated the guest on the Day of Russia, which is celebrated annually on June 12, noting that the Russian Federation always remains an important partner, ally and reliable friend of Kazakhstan.
this year the capacity will reach 3.5 million passengers, "said the head of the national company.
In 2016, the amount allocated for subsidies will be about 14.5 billion tenge.
In accordance with step 97 of the Plan, the Nation provides enhanced opportunities for participation in decision-making through self-regulation and the development of local governance.
however, the burning of carbon dioxide leads to a change in the climate of the world.
elections - proof that the country's initiatives have the support of the population.
for example, Europe, Turkey, China, Russia, Ukraine are a cultural dish.
we did this project not only for tiger recovery.
As part of the citywide subbotnik, it is planned to plant 16,000 trees.
Also this year, 7 major kha events, 10 international meetings were held abroad.	we have already established mediation centers in the country , which will deal with matters of public consent ,  ye.tugzhanov has said .
leading powers imposed sanctions against each other.
Speaking about the interaction of business structures of the two countries, the Israeli speaker noted the great potential and good opportunities for development.
The dialogue participants noted that the implementation of the new idea in the field of military security will increase the effectiveness of the fight against modern threats.
on legal acts and "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of legal acts," the bills are aimed at implementing the normative decree of the Constitutional Council of 2013, according to which the term "legal act" means in its content "normative legal act." broader, and the term "other legal acts" used in paragraph 1 of Article 83 of the Constitution contains all other acts that do not have these characteristics as normative, "the Minister of Justice reported.
According to him, thanks to the informatization of villages, the quality of education and medicine is developing.
we lack manpower.
Voting in the elections was a plebiscite in support of the nation's plan, which we announced.
our site is open for suggestions from users who can submit their logo offers. our website is open for the offers of the users .
By this time, Kazakhstan had signed an alternative agreement with 48 States on the promotion and protection of investment.	the document will contribute to the development of mutually beneficial investment and trade-economic cooperation .	0,66
In addition, the center for subcontracting and industrial cooperation was presented during the meeting.	it is based at nadloc and deals with the development of the eurasian network of industrial cooperation and subcontracting .	0,66
the level of training of Jasulans is growing every year.	the level of training is growing every year .	0,66
According to the organizers, the main goal of organizing competitions is to involve all segments of the population in competitions, promote all sports, and form a healthy lifestyle.	the organizers note that the main objectives of the competition is to involve various groups of the population in regular physical training and sports , to create conditions for the organization of active recreation , to preserve and strengthen families , to promote a healthy lifestyle .	0,66
Recall that cooperation between Kazakhstan and Tatarstan is developing well.	tatarstan president outlined that the cooperation in the field of culture and education will be strengthened .	0,66
the fund, as an active investor, should be aimed at investing new areas that will be resistant to the process of consolidated profit, "said N. Shukeev, presenting the transformation program to Samruk-kazyna groups of companies.
- Creation of more than 660 thousand new jobs, increase of labor productivity by more than 2 times.
also, according to the judge, many complain about the time the trial began.
Indian officers train Kazakhstani military personnel in the basics of peace and security operations.
however, assistance should be provided only to those who really need it, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
"Every big city must have an immediate warning system," the President of Kazakhstan said.
in the first place in the number of newborns - South Kazakhstan region.
best consumer goods: Kazlegprom-Almaty LLP (director of aibek bekturgans), ta-makka LLP (gulmira konkasheva), kazbergens (nurbek kazbergens)
Last spring, when early presidential elections were held, we noticed a positive step towards such work, "he concluded.
Also during the meeting, Sergey kulagin elaborated on the implementation of state and industry programs, such as curbing inflationary processes.
dormitories were built as part of the state program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
The President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that thanks to the envisaged reforms, the law enforcement and judicial system will increase the effectiveness of its work to protect the rights of citizens.
implemented unprecedented large-scale changes in national legislation in the history of the country.
At the same time, the production of Pavlodar region increased by 12.9%.
of which 6043 received permits, 22,877 citizens were trained at the school of entrepreneurship.
It is very convenient and effective, "he said.
they are considering the case on the merits.
our Kazakhstanis can be proud of their history.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan has a new specialized chamber of the supreme court.
an observer group will arrive in Almaty tomorrow.
in the near future it is planned to update another 22%.
Recall that an article by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev "The Plan of the Nation is the Way to the Kazakh Dream" was recently published.
the Minister noted that vaccination in all countries of the world is recognized as the most effective, accessible, economical measure in the fight against the epidemic.
from the border of the PRC to the city of Kyzylorda. as of today , traffic corridor has doubled .
he collaborated with international foreign organizations.
As the entrepreneur noted, among the candidates for parliament there are masters of their business.
the purpose of the project is to reduce the load on the road network, road accidents, increase the capacity of roads, average speed of vehicles. this project was created to reduce the load on the road network and road accidents , increase the average speed of the vehicles and road capacity .
In the CIS zone, the judicial system of Kazakhstan has improved, but it needs to be improved.
Special attention is paid to the exchange of experience, information and best achievements in the field of introducing an alternative method of dispute resolution and the use of electronic technologies in legal proceedings, "the statement said.
elections, as well as an assessment of the performance and effectiveness of political power.
Metropolitan Alexander thanked the head of the department for his warm words and readiness for a fruitful partnership.
In this regard, at the extraordinary congress of the IOC, athletes noted the successful development of clothing samples.
Note that at the Cup of the President of the Russian Federation, the national team of Kazakhstan has already won two medals.
there is an interest in each other.
they should work according to the model of world audit companies, strengthening expert and analytical components.
at the same time, the quality of products will improve due to the use of high-tech Italian and German equipment.
in addition, all parties understand that we can do even more.
in this regard, a special assembly fund has been established through which one another can be supported.
After 50 km, objects of the third category should be located, every 200 exits - the second, and in some tourist places - the first category.	as a result , they will be fully completed throughout the corridor ,  he has explained .
Since 2011, the akimat has been working with Zhilstroysberbank to provide apartments for loan and rent to young families.
I consider it necessary to create a single world network, which can be taken under the control of everyone involved in terrorist organizations, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
these elections once again demonstrated to the world the harmony and unity of the multinational people of Kazakhstan.
every year there is an increase in the number of manufacturers of weapons, military and special equipment, representatives of the business community who want to participate in this.
it is especially noticeable that digital technologies are somewhat in demand both in the economy and in public administration.
on the basis of these considerations, the National Academy of Sciences, welcoming the positions of the deputies of the parliament, calls on all Kazakhstanis to support the initiative of the people's representatives, "the appeal of the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan says.
It should be noted that the portal is the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the white "Cossack content" and the white project "national information technologies."
circulation of stamps - 5 thousand pieces.
The ceremony was attended by the mayor of the city of Yiwu shen ju ping and the heads of the Chinese railway administration, representatives of the international logistics holding Kazakhstan Temir Zholy "uk" ak translnest group.
The National Bank wants to buy all of us, so everything must go through the refinery.
The Secretary of State noted that the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n. Nazarbayev: "We coped, helped all the innocent victims of Stalinism, peacefully achieved their independence, uniting all ethnic groups and faiths around us."
In turn, the head of the region noted that, despite the difficult days, the leadership of the region provides maximum support to the team, and they should justify the confidence of the fans.
On March 1, 2016, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution "On accreditation of international organizations and observers of foreign states for early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and regular elections of deputies of maslikhats scheduled for March 20, 2016."
the main thing is that the head of state knows where, how to go and can set specific tasks for the state.
retirement age is not an obstacle to starting a business, "said kantai leather.
the client enters the room and receives the package on the ticket from the counter.
the draft agreement under discussion will soon be sent to the States of the Union for the conduct of procedures for a domestic agreement.
I believe that in order to implement the anti-crisis measures as soon as possible, we should support the legitimacy of parliament. " baiman.
Circular runoff inflatable water will be further treated and returned to production.
they gave everything they had and helped as they could. they helped the deportees .
in the east of the country, within the framework of the Khorgos-East Gate free economic zone, work is underway to create a transport and logistics hub, which provides for the construction of a dry port (completed) and a logistics zone backbone system (completed by 30%).
we see them as the main component of the large-scale anti-crisis measures of the State aimed at restoring a reliable rate of economic growth and ensuring strong social guarantees for the entire population.
opportunities and prospects for participation of German enterprises in the industrialization program of Kazakhstan were discussed.
To date, 350 women are receiving assistance in institutions providing curatorial assistance to 8 districts.
if we single out the oil service market in the category, then we will see that there is a simple work that does not require actuology, this is road construction, facilities, food organization work.
the ideas of the great steppe of the "eternal country" became the solid trust of Kazakhstan.
Zhambyl Regional Regional Commission carries out activities in accordance with the schedule of the central election commission. last week we had a large regional seminar-meeting with the chairmen of the territorial and district election commissions .
- Increased time spent with the family;
in addition, there is a Javanese macaque, her name is Alice.
Regularly works on accession to international conventions to promote Kazakh culture at the international level, as a result of which it adds its heritage to the UNESCO list of cultural heritage. in our country , there are 10 monuments of international importance , 219 monuments of historical and cultural value , 11 266 monuments of local importance , " - said a. raimkulova .
The programme has taken steps to mitigate the crisis.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that despite the difficult situation in the world economy, Kazakhstan maintains the growth rate of the economy and provides social guarantees to citizens of the country.
To further improve the country's position in the rating, a special working group monitored the implementation of all ongoing reforms in this direction.
An "open day" for people with disabilities, orphans and low-income families is announced at the Museum of Fine Arts named after the non-visor family.
it is equipped with modern equipment.
in order for the voter to exercise this right, the akimats compile voter lists and are responsible for the reliability and completeness of the information contained in them. in the case the citizen leaves the territory of the republic of kazakhstan the voter may get an absentee ballot for the right to vote outside the country .
the anniversary of independence should contribute to the strengthening of Kazakhstani society, and state bodies should be fully guided by it, "he said.
The head of state noted that a number of priority state programs are being implemented in Kazakhstan, in which Iranian companies can participate.
Today, this sample is the best multifunctional combat aircraft in the world.
senators visited the village of Aktogai of the Mahambet district and the auln village in the Inder district, met with the leadership of the district, deputies of the district maslikhat and workers of several peasant farms.
good health, only good.
when choosing the board, the reputation and legal and scientific sphere and the practical activities of candidates were taken into account.
The entry into force of the agreement will be the main condition for establishing a visa-free regime between the two countries for holders of national passports, "said Interior Minister Kalmukhanbetov Kassymov.
fifthly, legislation on the transfer of public services to a competitive environment needs to be modernized in the future.
Representatives of small and medium-sized businesses of the regions also provide assistance.
public service is necessary for good service to citizens and business society. high quality civil service is necessary to provide the best services to citizens and the business community .
thus, the average competition is 3 applicants for 1 deputy mandate.
the flag of the assembly did not fly into space.
stability, harmony and overcoming the difficulties that the whole world is experiencing.
we became members of the world trade organization so that our trade is high-quality, attractive.
Muscovites presented to colleagues from the Kyzylorda region a new model of engineering education, implemented at the Skolkovsky Institute of Science and Technology.
Currently, as a topical topic, systematic work is being developed and is being carried out to solve the issues of drinking water, electricity, gas supply, roads that concern residents of settlements connected to the city.
As noted in the ministry, a single national document has been developed on the issuance of expenditure permits in the field of construction, as a result of which the issuance of expenditure permits will be reduced from 31 to 15 days.
In addition, issues of developing youth education were analyzed.
for example, colleges in the region are adopting the Norwegian model of vocational training.
Thus, in 2009, as part of the signing of a strategic association agreement between Spain and Kazakhstan, many agreements were concluded to protect investments and eliminate double taxation.
as well as clarifying the conditions for the performance of work and the provision of services, including in relation to buildings and structures, in the event of identification of defects intentionally hidden by the contractor, an extension of the limitation period from 3 to 5 years is provided.
the average score in the capital was 91.3.
The development and strengthening of these values should be guided by the efforts of State bodies and civil society.
B. The style also noted that Canada and Kazakhstan have great success in the development of the mining and uranium sectors.
firstly, this should affect the maximum conditions for the elections for citizens of Kazakhstan, as well as comprehensive propaganda work.
I think that our comments will not be ignored, "he said.
The Head of the Government of Kazakhstan congratulated his Kyrgyz counterpart on his appointment to this position and wished success in his work.
Also today, the next election of deputies of the maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan took place.
this initiative of majilismen was widely supported among citizens of Kazakhstan.
when creating ice towns, all issues were taken into account and a special design was developed.
the company exports its products not only in Kazakhstan, but also to countries near and far abroad.
archaeological sites of eastern Kazakhstan are worthy of further study, as they play a decisive role in the study of the history of ancient societies with their unique information.
of which 866 - to the regional maslikhats, 34 - to the capital maslikhat, 133 - to the Almaty city maslikhat.
In conclusion, elections in the country are held in accordance with the law, "said the president of the Greek-Eurasian Business Council, Spyridon Kuvelis.
The Forum expressed its intention to strengthen cooperation among the prosecutorial communities in combating transnational organized crime and preparing new approaches to its prevention.
then we will be strong, we must inherit the unity, the unity of the people.
the kobda area is also in a convenient location.
The headquarters was attended by representatives of all state bodies involved in the implementation of anti-drug activities of the state.
we see them as the main component of the large-scale anti-crisis measures of the State aimed at restoring a reliable rate of economic growth and ensuring strong social guarantees for the entire population.
Within the framework of this project, we are systematically addressing the issues of diversifying the fleet and expanding the geography of transportation, as well as improving the level of safety and quality of transportation.
lapunda and pig tail macaques, the tail of which is similar to the undeveloped tail of the retina.
trust between them plummeted.
in the future, the partnership plans to create additional jobs for the local population and provide the market with high-quality products.
This technical regulation of the union obliges those who produce liquefied hydrocarbon gas as fuel in the eurozone, the commission said.
Now it is extended for 25 years, since grain or fruits need to be planted on the ground, and for 5 years they do not grow.
This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence.
this agreement replaces the previous 1997 agreement, "he said.
Following the results of the competition, participants will continue to participate in the international stage of the Army Games 2016, which will be held in the Russian Federation.
Another problem is the isolation of terrorism from Islam.
During the meeting, the head of state congratulated the deputies on their election and wished them success in their work.
To date, 11 special economic zones have been created in the region, at which 151 projects are planned.
As a result of work by train specialists, 1,658 cases of the disease were registered, of which 266 were in children.
many countries have their own characteristics.
the task and task of each commander, chief, sergeant is to ensure the training process, increase the level of training of subordinates, preventing accidents and the death of personnel.	the soldiers began the task on alert duty in the area of responsibility for the timely detection and tracking of its aircraft , as well as the organization of conducting aerial reconnaissance of the enemy , the ministry of defense reported .	0,67
including inspected built infrastructure facilities (railways, power lines and the production of launched polymer products.	according to him , the reconstruction and modernization of atyrau , shymkent and pavlodar oil refineries is scheduled for late 2017 , which will allow the country to fully supply domestic markets with home-produced oil products since 2018 .	0,67
It is worth noting that the main purpose of the forum is to discuss ideas, as well as exchange experience on regional development and interregional cooperation.	it is worth noting that the main objective of the forum is to discuss ideas and exchange of experience on regional development and interregional cooperation .	0,67
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today it is important to ensure the safety of facilities using nuclear energy.	the president noted that today it is important to ensure safe use of nuclear energy .	0,67
in this process, not only scientists, but also all representatives of the public of the republic should take an active part.	the representatives of science and the general public of our country should partake actively in this process .	0,67
today, many things are connected with the fact that we begin the great Kazakh path and the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country.	today , a lot depends on us , those who started our great kazakhstan way and the idea of an  eternal nation . "
everything about the quality of life of the population and security measures requires rigorous analysis. everything that concerns the life and safety of the population requires special and careful approach .
The second important event was the signing of a memorandum on the creation of a joint venture to create a housing fund for the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of the year, under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, visits to China, Turkey, Iran, Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, the Czech Republic and Finland were organized for the Aktobe delegation, as well as meetings with representatives of the advanced business environment.
It is worth noting that preventive examinations and rehabilitation of students will be carried out not in primary health care organizations, but in educational organizations.
the debutant will represent the country in the Russian Federation.
in the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan is working on this direction.
a very favorable moment when deputies of the Majilis of parliament can realize the ties with national policy. it is a very positive moment that the deputies of the majilis feel their relationship with the national policy so strongly .
he also drew attention to the significant role of our country in the development of the Islamic world.
According to the CEC secretary, the number of ballots will be printed depending on the number of voters.
the contest participants faced a difficult task.
According to N. Nazarbayev, the united eeo market should have a strong link between east and west.
the relevant ministries are now preparing a programme.
high quality of training.
such scientific reports as "the eternal personality of history, heroic poetry," "a look from Russia," "the score was spent in Zhambyl poetry" and others were presented to the participants of the symposium.
According to him, this year marked the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 20th anniversary of the constitution, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
the competence of these councils is legislated.
in the near future they will be ratified by our country, "explained E. Ashchikbaev.
the local population reaches 78.6 million people.
the superstructure of the complex is Turkish production.
such a trend is popular among commercial companies.
a public servant who provides experienced assistance in his activities becomes a mentor.
Tokayev spoke about the legislative activities of the Kazakh parliament and the implementation of the institutional reform of the head of state n.nazarbayev.
he was relieved of his duties as chairman of the commission.
According to the press service of the Mayor's Office of Stepnogorsk, the trilateral memorandum sets the task to implement the decisions of the city commission, regulate labor relations, comply with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of ensuring the safety of jobs and stability of production at the city's enterprises.
the project will create jobs and implement effective measures to diversify the economy.
every citizen opens up new opportunities and creates conditions, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
the publication of this book attaches particular importance to it when a country, systematically proven by the president, opens a new stage of modernization.
Also a.Isekeshev noted that to date, roadside service standards have been approved.
I perceive the initiative of the deputies as a manifestation of patriotic concern for the fate of Kazakhstanis and Kazakhstanis.
Edelstein noted Israel's high interest in maintaining warm friendly relations with Kazakhstan and noted its special influence in the region.
in the Irtysh district, the repair of the internal village water supply system has been completed, which will contribute to the introduction of water into houses in the village of Irtysh, "said the head of the region.
All the objects around us are made from the hands of the workers.
in many terrible diseases, an ax hurts.
the region closely cooperates with the agricultural industry.
this will create favorable conditions for attracting investment in the industry, ensure the regulation of international electricity flows in favor of domestic consumers, and improve the quality of public administration of the industry.
this situation makes it necessary to look for alternative ways of development.
a festive concert was also held with the participation of local performers.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, information that they cannot receive salaries at work is received daily.
According to him, representatives of the headquarters of the observer mission met with the heads of authorized bodies and the campaign headquarters of the parties participating in the elections.
as a result of which measures should be taken to recognize and deregister them.
Today, as part of the head of state's order, the issue of active development of the gold mining industry in Kazakhstan is being resolved.
I sincerely congratulate you on the housewarming!
The purpose of this event is to involve the self-employed, unemployed and citizens belonging to the target groups of the population in active measures to promote employment.
The deputy corps of the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the plenary session unanimously supported the preparation of the results of the project.
this code is aimed at supporting Kazakhstani producers.
According to the head of the center, Heitzman, the creation and opening of a regional center is a vivid example of the development of institutions of demacracy and the active participation of civil society in the socio-political issues of the country.
The project was also developed taking into account the best foreign experience of the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in the development of organizations for children and adolescents with additional education.
enterprises will mainly be engaged in the production of construction products, instant cooking, furniture, and the production of medical devices.
After the exhibition on this territory, it is planned to create an international center for the development of green technologies and investment projects with steam support.
In addition, in accordance with the law, the decisions of these councils will be developed by social activists, that is, non-governmental organizations, civil activists and specialized institutions, "he said.
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held.
harvesting, production of domestic harvesters, an increase in the number of ikma and poultry by 10%, the development of the processing industry and the achievement of the intended tasks, the head of the region noted.
Within the framework of the exhibition, business relations with representatives of the tourism business have been established.
Over the 2 years of the usl project, about 1000 players and more than 30,000 fans took part in the games.
in this regard, it is necessary not to rush, but to take a step with great caution.
For this purpose, the duty officer at the station should be notified in advance of the arrival of a disabled citizen.
According to him, one of the components of non-financial support for projects under the BZHK 2020 program is business service centers.
The main goal of the EAT is to ensure the reliability and security of the financial system, integration into the system of the international fight against the system of money laundering of states.
the majilis of parliament received a statement by Ilyas baktybaev on the termination of powers of his own free will. the majilis of the parliament received a statement from ilyas baktybayev on termination of powers at his own will .
General Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (Hawks) According to article XIV, Kazakhstan believes that these actions of the DPRK leadership, which together with Japan are the equal rights of the 9th Conference, seriously damage the efforts of the international community to nuclear disarmament, strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime and global security, reject the desire of most countries of the world to ensure the entry into force of Iasi.
The Development Fund has been a financial agency for the Business Roadmap 2020 program for 5 years.
According to the American diplomat, the strategic partnership commission has become a permanent source of relations between the countries.
Following the visit, the Director of the Directorate for the Organization and Conduct of the 2017 Winter Universiade, Asset Abdoualiyev, noted that the visit of the Supervisory Board will allow him to work effectively in the future.
Actively implement public-private partnerships.
not everyone knows the rich nature of Kazakhstanis and the great silk road. " soorangura.
The conference was organized by the National University of Australia and Honorary Consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Melbourne Andrew Fernandihou.
special attention was paid to the work of the group on cooperation between the parliaments of the two countries on inter-parliamentary relations, and the parties expressed confidence that today's meeting will further strengthen Kazakh-Polish relations, including inter-parliamentary ones.
"Prepare, the state does not always protect, so business must withstand these difficulties, the main thing is that we have a plan," said A. Myrzakhmetov.
in accordance with the current legislation, administrative or criminal liability is provided for violation of athletics rules.
Then the event was held in Almaty and Kyzylorda, more than a thousand exhibits were transferred to the National Museum Fund.
In addition, on June 5 of this year, the names of Sochi, Almaty-Sochi, the capital of Sochi will be opened.
According to the regional department of internal policy, 52 people were employed during the construction.
Recall, on January 13, deputies turned to the head of state with a request for early elections.
In addition, according to the political scientist, the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev is a pragmatic political scientist and always takes the necessary measures.
this tradition in 2016 was continued by the action "Caravan of Charity."
therefore, overcoming information inequality between people is a goal that can be compared in scale in overcoming poverty.
The time and causes of ethnic holidays are harmonized.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
there are issues that remain to be discussed.
those who are behind us make up the echelon of freshman extremists, the vanguard of ideological repair of youth.
it also indicates the effectiveness and priority of Parliament's competence.
As an upcoming anti-crisis measure, the head of state announced the State Infrastructure Development Program in 2014.
As the chairman noted, the committee, together with the anti-doping organization, should identify those who apply it.
A space remote sensing system for the Earth of the Republic of Kazakhstan has also been developed.
The keys to the apartments were handed over to the newcomers by Governor of the North Kazakhstan region Erik Sultanov.
As Deputy Minister of Finance Ardak Tengebayev noted, this trend provides for the introduction and implementation of the law on the country's border.
in this regard, the fund will not become an administrative regulator in the future, which will coordinate the activities of portfolio companies, but an organization that will increase cost and increase revenue. thus , the fund will operate primarily as a commercial organization , " he concluded .
The President of the holding also noted the great potential of Almaty, a large financial center in the Central Asian region, cultural and innovative hubs and the capital of the Universiade-2017.
In the future, we plan to increase the export of eggs to Russia and enter other markets, "said Boris Ozdoev, director of Kazger-Poultry LLP.
works closely with committees of houses of parliament and departments of apparatus.
The First Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, representing the Administration of the President of Kazakhstan, has provided official support to all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
Estonia has modern transport centers for wheat exports. first of all , we offer to cooperate in logistics .
It is very important for Kazakhstan that the activities of observers be understandable and transparent for the world community.
of the reports voiced at the forum, it should be noted the report of the President of the National Academy of Sciences Zhurinov Muratov on the need for scientific support for production.
the opening of new service facilities will help to increase the competitiveness of enterprises, as well as improve the quality of services.
the whole team is working on one goal - to hold the Universiade at a high level, "he said.
Zhambyl Regional and Tbek Electrotechnical Association of members of Zhambyl and Changji-Hui delegations with their participation (the world's largest manufacturer of electric transformers and cables), Bayzak district of Zhambyl region and Manas district of shuaa chan, Kordai district of Zhambyl region and Khutubi district of Shuaa Chkhan, Shu district of Zhambyl region and Mori-Kazakh autonomous region of Shuaa Chkhan, Department of Agriculture of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the Committee of Economics and Policy of the National Government of Shuaa Chkhan, Department of Agriculture of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the Department of the National Government of Shuaa Chkhan, the Department of Culture of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the Department of the People's Government of Shuaa Chkhan, Memoranda were signed on strengthening mutual understanding and cooperation between the Taraz State Pedagogical Institute and the Changji Vocational College.
This forum was successfully reformed in the new century with the participation of 27 States of the continent, couples and other international organizations.
a competent, highly qualified group of respondents is inclined to the fact that the elections will increase the qualifications of parliament.
In addition, Kazakhstan and Senegal expressed a desire to exchange experience in the field of high performance sports, sports diagnostics, as well as the use of modern equipment and equipment for the training of high-level athletes.
According to the upper house, the speaker of the Senate thanked the head of the Chinese delegation for supporting Kazakhstan in the fight against terrorism and connecting with those killed in the act of terrorism.
The bill provides for the streamlining of the public information system through the State Environmental Information Fund.
Following the talks, the parties agreed to accelerate the resolution of this issue with the participation of the customs authorities of the two countries.
The event was attended by deputy akim of the region, heads of regional departments, representatives of ethnocultural organizations and deputies.
How is this task performed?
According to him, the head of state pays special attention to preserving family values.
now the main thing is to "check the clock" in a difficult period.
In turn, the dean of the law faculty of excavations named after al-Farabi, doctor of law, professor of the daulet of bideldins noted the speed of the regions during the election campaign and voting day.
The meeting was attended by the heads of more than 20 Iranian companies, including imidro, ghadir investments group, sunir group, irisl, jahad-esabz, working in various industries, including energy, agriculture, construction, mining.
this is an industrial park and an administrative zone equal to the left bank of the capital.
if it is possible, of course, to hold separate elections correctly.
support for business and employment
This year, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region, together with the Department of Education of East Kazakhstan region, initiated a regional competition of business projects among students and students of organizations of technical and professional education, Altai colleges.
firstly, a professional state apparatus that works in the field of openness and meritocracy.
As for solar energy, wind power is popular in Germany.
More than a thousand people joined the ranks, sang military songs and drove along a growing embankment, reports East Kazakhstan region.
I think that the project to do good is a national idea, and every day people do good things to change their lives.
residents of these four cities of Kazakhstan will have the opportunity to preferentially purchase energy-saving lamps through the chocolife coupon service.
It should be noted that today the XIII Eurasian Media Forum is taking place in the capital.
K. Massimov thanked the akim for his support in the creation of an Islamic organization for food security.
on the stage of the central concert hall will be excerpts from the terms, dastans, unrest of the seventies authors.
the academician also noted that the plan of the nation, implemented in Kazakhstan, is a great historical opportunity, the potential of which should be used as much as possible.
In order to further fully develop the plant, a memorandum was signed this year with the National University of Defense on the joint conduct of research, pilot and instructor work in the framework of the preparation and modernization of armored vehicles.
The projects of the Industrialization Map program implemented since 2010 have produced products worth 6.2 trillion tenge.
It was noted that the hub contributes to the development of regional and interregional cooperation to achieve the goals of sustainable development, at present, together with the Singapore center, it is becoming a popular organization that shares knowledge and experience in the field of public service.
According to Vladimir Maltsev, Director of the Industrial Policy Department of the Commission, the approximation of technical regulations applied in the EAEU, on the one hand, is a favorable situation for localizing agricultural production, on the other, it facilitates access of local producers to the markets of third countries.
In the Russian Federation there is an assembly of the people of Russia.
In particular, the president spoke at the general assembly last September.
Currently, the composition of the meeting is not determined, this work is considered in the Senate "without an elephant."
currently there are only 3 groups.
because it is they who have to carry out constant explanatory and preventive anti-corruption work directly in departments and formations.
In turn, the deputy director of the central museum, Major General Mikhail Mikhalchev thanked him.
the prospects for our agribusiness in various areas, including dairy, feed, fruit, poultry and other sectors of agriculture, have been the subject of research and discussion.
part of the funds will be allocated for the preparation of design estimates for the construction of a regional museum and an indoor hockey module, a corpse in Aktobe.
As stated earlier, "the main goal is to limit products."
Q.Masim and I.Madani agreed that the creation of an Islamic organization for food security will bring the mutual cooperation of the participating countries to a new qualitative level.
a solemn Mass of Joaquino Rossins will take place.
this is evidence of relevance that increases the importance of the manifesto, "said A. Bizhanov.
a similar party control will be established over the spending of budget funds, the implementation of sectoral and state programs that are directly related to the implementation of the party's election platform.
The main topic of negotiations was the updating of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
During the talks, prospects for further expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation in trade, economic, transport and logistics spheres were discussed, in particular in increasing cargo flow through the Kazakh-Chinese logistics park in the port of Lianyungang.
The Kazakh diplomat spoke about the preparation of political parties for the upcoming March 20, 2016 elections in Kazakhstan, the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
in addition, the implementation of the law has improved the efficiency of public procurement, introduced public control and increased transparency of decisions made.
this protocol aims to significantly improve access to affordable medicines in developing countries.
we saw with our own eyes both the preparatory work and the electoral process as a whole, and we are sure that it is taking place at the proper level.
the main theme is "a new economic reality: diversification, innovation and the economics of knowledge."
at the same time, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to increase innovative, design and service enterprises in the business environment of Almaty.
Corresponding changes have been made to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" and signed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the head of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan said.
therefore, it is now important that Kazakhstanis not only know about them, but also take advantage of the new opportunities that they provide in practical life, economic activity or public relations.
he noted that a competent institute of ethics is being introduced in Kazakhstan.
today we are all witnessing products that have no analogues in the world on an artistic basis, "said K.Ualiev.
In April of this year we will select athletes to participate in the championship of Kazakhstan in Taraz. the championship is a qualification stage to the championship in taraz in april .
this is the introduction of tax instead of VAT, a three-level increase in the tax system, the abolition of inefficient tax benefits, and increased transparency of the tax system.
I believe that this is a timely initiative and a very sensible solution.	for this reason , kazakhstan is very important for turkey .	0,67
now the bill is undergoing approval of state bodies.	the bill is being considered by the state bodies .	0,67
According to him, the number of divorces is growing every year, the number of people in nursing homes and homes for the disabled is increasing.	and there are a lot of old people in the nursing homes , children who are in the orphanages , children 's homes , and the mothers worry about it .	0,67
when employing orphans, any opportunities will be used, "he said.
because our country has a lot of creative youth, and our young generation is striving for the future, "said M. Amantayev.
I am sure that after graduation, they will become qualified personnel who will participate in the work of this plant, "the akim of the region said.
Speaking of dzhambul, it is worth remembering the wonderful translator Kuznetsov.
883 people were assigned to vocational training (year plan 470 people). 1,241 people were employed (year plan 901 people). 1,381 young specialists were sent to youth practice (year plan 507 people). 7,552 people were involved in public work (year plan 6,533 people) 315 people received microcredit (year plan 155 people);
The agreement will be officially approved in January 2017 as part of the summit on the energy of the future.
today also held a general meeting of white shareholders "bklk."
Within the framework of the annual conference of the regional hub for public service affairs, the chairman of the regional hub of abnormal shimomura thanked Alikhan Baimenov for the important work on reforming the public service in Kazakhstan.
In connection with the economy of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, the Director General of the Golden Eagle of the Salzhans and the Deputy Chairman of the Dzhambulat Sarsen Kazenerga Association showed.
another potential industry of mechanical engineering.
The work on holding elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Atyrau region was approved on March 20, 2016 in accordance with the graphic plan of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan. measures for the preparation and holding of elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels in atyrau region are held according to the schedule of the central election commission of kazakhstan .
As an example, the President of Kazakhstan cited our country, which has become a single civic nation of 17 faiths and more than 100 representatives of ethnic groups.
These changes and additions were adopted by the fund's board in 2015.
For 15 years of activity KazAgro financed the purchase of 344.8 thousand units of equipment and equipment in the amount of 34 billion tenge.
the president gave a clear explanation for the proposal to terminate the powers of parliament early.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that in the new position a. Myrzakhmetov will have to implement a number of complex tasks, including an effective solution to the land issue.
Work is actively underway in 20 areas.
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held.
and the second is intended for training.
all the issues under consideration were supported by one of the founders of the Eurasian group and chairman of the board of directors Alexander Mashkevich.
optimal side of the five-day school week:
today's conference is, firstly, one of the measures to implement the plan of the nation 100 concrete steps. "
where did your passion for this art come from?
the head of state constantly speaks about this.
During the meeting, the delegations presented models of social harmony and national unity.
Elections are scheduled for March 20. throughout the week from the 13th of january we overwatch the actions that are taking place in our country .
During the conversation, the parties exchanged views on the draft code and other issues of judicial work.
the new tennis center has 5 courts, two of which are closed, in one of which you can hold competitions with 500 seats.
the possibility of team migration is legally obtained.
- it was very easy to work.
Currently, members of the commission are actively conducting explanatory work.
this initiative of Majilis deputies is very relevant.
monitoring showed that the state garden tried to meet the official requirements for equal access to all applicants.
agreement was reached on the fulfillment of orders for the supply of chemical cargo, mineral fertilizers through the port of Novorossiysk, the transportation of petroleum products through the Taman port.
it should be as simplified as possible.
the number of unemployed in the region is 21.3 thousand. Or 33.4% of the unemployed population.
According to him, the academic year in Europe will last until July 5.
Thus, at the expense of credit funds, you can replenish working capital not by 25, but by 30%.
not only unity, "but also all parties intend to revive the clergy, preserve and develop culture.
the main driver of technological progress is entrepreneurship.
when moving to a new economic situation, it can be understood that the Kazakh leadership still understands the difficulties and is preparing for this, "concluded Julia Yakusheva.
According to the deputy, the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan successfully fulfills the task assigned to them.
in addition, an action plan for attracting investment will be approved in the near future.
this day expresses gratitude to each other of all ethnic groups for peace and stability and, above all, to the Kazakh people, who harboured and supported innocent victims of repression in this sacred place.
The opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by the head of the region B. Atamkulov, Vice Minister of Economy of Turkey.
compared to other periods, we have now replenished the gold fund and the state fund as necessary. the new projects created within the innovative industrialization program boost the kazakhstan economy .
- After the decision of the Head of State on holding early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels, the CEC adopted a number of resolutions, including calendar events, which are held during the election campaign.
Currently, 13 printing houses have been identified in the regions, work will continue.
therefore, the parliament of presidential reforms and local maslikhats, which received a new mandate of public confidence, are necessary for the successful implementation of the national plan.
his team created a department that will register participants who generally make up the regulator.
In addition, according to him, a joint action plan for the supply of imports to China was signed with the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the large state corporation Sinoma.
this task should be seen by world leaders as an absolute priority against other challenges on the global agenda.
of course, and a permanent allowance.
Kazakhstan has several plants in this industry that want to close imports, update their products and become strategic partners.
in addition, systematized materials are the basis for the further work of the congress.
one of them is the new mini-hotel "Sultan" and a complex with a cafe for 50 people.
such a rate of economic growth can be achieved only through the formation of new drivers that will allow the flow of export income.
Work with the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a good experience, snow and grass, which are not needed when harvesting, will be aimed at radar technologies, "he said.
It is expected that more than 16 industries totaling $2.6 billion will operate in the country. it is expected there will be about 16 production facilities , total investment - over 2.6 billion dollars .
the first session of the ECE chaired by the Kazakh side.
in the direction of "white" and "transmashholding" left 25% of the shares.
therefore, you see that the state pays attention, allocates funds, provides support.
thus, with the application of conciliation procedures, the number of civil cases examined increased 2.5 times.
Adaulbaev expressed hope for the influence of Baroness Scotland Yard in establishing mutually beneficial cooperation in the framework of bilateral and multilateral relations with the member countries of the Association of Nations.
In accordance with the established schedule, the First Deputy Akim of South Kazakhstan region made a visiting visit to the region of the Baidibek and Sozak, where he visited social, residential and agricultural facilities under construction.
in case of temporary unemployment due to sitting with a child, in case of an accident at work. mandatory insurance against temporary disability and maternity , compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases and compulsory health insurance are provided .
To date, 1,718 enterprises, 348 colleges and more than 22 thousand students have been covered.	also , the implementation of the dual training system will continue work .	0,68
for the first time this year, he presented the capabilities of a new aviation and technical center.	for the first time , the possibilities of a new aviation-technical center , which has no analogues in central asia were demonstrated .	0,68
According to the head of the department, today Kazakhstan and Spain cooperate in the field of engineering, tourism and the grain industry, alternative energy sources.	at the same time , the minister has said that in 2017 kazakhstan will hold expo 2017 and the international financial center of astana in the exhibition area will start working .	0,68
Governor of the capital expressed confidence that the visit of the head of the region will give an additional impetus to strengthening and further development of friendship between the regions of neighboring states.	astana akim expressed confidence that the visit of the head of the region will give an additional impetus to strengthening and developing of the friendly relations .	0,68
that country was now working to ensure stability and security in the fight against terrorism.	now the countries of central asia are engaged in addressing the issues of security , stability and the fight against terrorism .	0,68
at a meeting of the working group, this issue was finally considered and finally resolved in favor of the entrepreneur.	in order to expand its business , entrepreneur received refusals , and was forced to appeal to the chamber .	0,68
In general, according to the results of February and the first half of March, there is an increase in the share of the deposit.
Three specialists are currently being trained.
Members of the Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the Governor of Yuko visited the regional neuropsychiatric boarding school, where they took part in the equipment of children's rest rooms.
This year, 15 ski competitions were held in the capital as part of the ski season, in which more than 6 thousand people took part.
this is obvious, because Kazakhstan cannot live independently from the whole world.
The document was developed in order to give a new impetus to cooperation between the two countries in the trade and industrial sphere.
Director of the Sports Fund Directorate of the national staff team noted that the final sketch will be ready after January 20, 2015.
in fact, the guarantee of this popular trust was a historical act when we have a united nation.
all this will give a powerful impetus to increasing the economic and civic activity of the whole population.
Kazakhstan is in the Eurasian Economic Council, where 181.6 million people live.
He visited Kazakhstan for the first time and noted that the young eloda admires the beauty and hospitality of the Kazakh people.
To succeed, we must be confident of the future.
Amendments to the Land Code provide:
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
all criminals must be arrested.
It is worth noting that within the framework of situational policy, the consideration of investments, the introduction of modern environmental solutions, green technologies, as well as the joint research sphere, a number of opportunities have been established for the development of cooperation in the field of alternative energy sources.
According to him, labor productivity in agriculture lags behind other industries.
The resource-3p spacecraft No. 3 complements the orbital grouping of civilian means of remote sensing of the Earth with a partial-level solution.
These agreements were concluded during the Kazakh-Iranian forum organized by Baiterek holding in Tehran.
among them - hatred of the founder of the Chinese company alibaba group in the field of Internet commerce, director-manager of the IMF Christine Lagarde, ex-president of suma chakrabarti, director of the land institute of Columbia University, one of the three most respected economists in the world according to the British magazine "the economist," professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "why nations fail: the origins of power, prosperity, and poverty "author of world bestsellers daron azhemoglu, former adviser to the president of the Ronald Reagan and British Prime Minister margaret thatcher arthur laffer, winner of the Leontiev ha-jun chang prize." currency wars, "as well as Nobel Prize laureates in economics, Edward Prescott, Christopher Pissarides and Thomas Sargent.
Therefore, according to the Kazakh diplomat, the President of Kazakhstan proposed to create a global coalition to counter terrorism under the motto "pair."
thus, this will allow the further development of the socio-economic sector in the context of the crisis and with austerity measures implemented in the public sector, "he said.
under the German society there is a youth club "diament," the purpose of which is the development of culture, the formation of languages ​ ​ and traditions, as well as social theaters that demonstrate various areas, "he said.
I think that a new wave of deputies that meets the requirements of today is able to solve difficult problems for the country, "he said.
in particular, the situation in Ukraine and Afghanistan, issues of countering terrorism were discussed.
According to him, the forum participants have nothing to do with paid registration and participation.
The birthday of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which was the beginning of our unity, also falls on March 1, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Last year, an element of trilingual education will be introduced in 2 schools, "said K. Nkrekbaev.
R. Zhoshybayev spoke about preparations for EXPO-2017 and invited Belgian businessmen to take part in the international exhibition.
According to the ministry, the main goal of the working group on regional cooperation in the field of communications is the effectiveness of the use of space technologies and the implementation of national projects in the territory of regional cooperation in the field of satellite communications.
if one citizen did not find himself on the list, then he turned to these centers for help.
the whole country will work to adequately meet the great holiday. the whole country will work as a single whole to worthily welcome the great holiday .
On March 3, 1992, it was decided to transfer its name to the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the association received republican status.
a single pension fund, a problem loan fund and other financial institutions.
There are separate opinions on the situation in Europe, in the world, in China, but in general no one can argue.
- As I said, I participated in many conferences and exhibitions.
today, trilingualism, as I understand it, is a parameter of young citizens of the 21st century. i believe that today trilingual education is a component of the model of a young man of the xxi century .
We believe in the support of our country.
they are participants in international and Ukrainian folk art, events organized in the city.
According to him, 46.2% of state employees of the region (2173) are women.
Citizens have the opportunity to renew their work permit only once for one year without leaving the host country.
I hope my colleagues will cope, "said the chairman of the Latvian CEC.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War, the Afghan War, pupils of the republican school named after the national hero, army general sagadat nurmagambetov, as well as servicemen of the military unit 68665 took part in the solemn event to present the flag.
According to B. Bekbauov, the first information on the open budget portal will be published in May of this year - citizens will be able to receive a report on the implementation of budget programs for 2015.
Within the framework of the exhibition and forum, strategic priorities for the development of the modern energy industry will be determined, a new global model of energy and sustainable development will be comprehensively discussed.
Tokayev's words were received with great enthusiasm by the forum participants and comprehensive answers were given to the questions posed.
overdue ammunition is transferred to the appropriate category and disposed of at our locations.
data published on the portal are provided for easy use of information by programmers on the model of machine reading and creation of equestrian products based on them, as well as for familiarization of all interested parties with information in excel format.
Also, the development of Kazakhstan tourist offers will be carried out by a Chinese consulting company that has collaborated with this program.
Summing up the results of the meeting, the head of the region on the first issue of the agenda noted that the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan should have a clear and detailed plan for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy in our region, and also instructed the head of the regional department of economy and budget planning A. Abdullaev to develop a program brought into line with the above strategic document in all sectors.
reduction of export market related to metal, exchange rate volatility - this will allow us to maintain competitiveness of domestic metallurgical products, "said B. Sagintayev.
K.Akhmyrshin reported to the Head of State on the main results of the Accounting Committee for 2015, ongoing problems in the planning and use of budget funds, as well as tasks for the coming period.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan D.Nazarbayeva stressed the social orientation and special significance of the President's message for the further development of Kazakhstan in the context of the global economic crisis.
Holding meetings on Saturday will allow parents to get acquainted with universities and colleges with their children.
On the basis of the program, loans were issued to residents of remote and granted areas.
such an indicator is unprecedented in the history of economic cooperation between the two countries.
Recall that the exhibition of Hungarian artists was held with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Embassy of Hungary in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Foundation for Art Painting of the cowache.
Recall that the draft new code was developed in accordance with the plan of the nation.
In 2015, subsidies to entrepreneurs amounted to 1,200 million tenge.
in particular, it is now possible to apply to the CES for registration of taxpayers, registration of the taxpayer, a certificate on the amounts of income from sources in the Republic of Kazakhstan and withheld (paid) taxes, as well as confirmation of the residence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, etc.
we selected a number of people for the title of Ambassador of Expo 2017. we founded the honorable status of ambassadors of expo 2017 which is appropriated to famous public figures , representatives of science , culture , sport and business .
Well, of course, I can't say anything about how elections were held in other places in the capital.
the main sources of air pollution are transport, thermal power plants, autonomous boiler houses and the private sector.
- First Secretary of the South Kazakhstan Regional Kkp Committee
At the initiative of N.A. Nazarbayev, 2015 was declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The head of state also focused on the issue of providing state support to military personnel.
To do this, it is necessary that the political parties participating in the elections take part in this event in order to express their gold, "Turgankulov said.
For this, the Chinese initiative on the silk road is a transport and transit project.
the exposition consists of 4 sections, collected from books and electronic funds of the National Academic Library of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time as the elections to the regional, city, district maslikhats will allow the authorities to come to new political forces, which will allow Kazakhstanis to find a way out in a difficult situation.
During the meeting, questions were raised about the appearance of the capital and it was noted that work in this direction should not be limited only to coinciding with significant dates.
these are agrochemical products, railway axes, enterprises for the creation of energy transport, etc. "
thanks to the speed of paramedics, first aid was provided and the wounded peacekeeper was taken to the infirmary.
Recall that in order to protect the domestic labor market, the Government of Kazakhstan annually establishes quotas for attracting foreign specialists to the republic.
During the discussion, it became necessary to amend the state environmental assessment aimed at improving the transparency and access of the population to the decisions taken, taking into account the comments and proposals of the Senate committees.
also agreed a list of organizations recognized as terrorist and extremist in UN member states.
the signing of this document will give a new impetus to the development of interaction, the exchange of information and best practices in the legal sphere.
From the first day of independence, the leader of the nation drew attention to the preservation of stability and peace on our land.
In her speech, the Secretary of State noted the relevance of the discussion of human rights in the framework of the implementation of the plan of the nation proposed by the head of state, as well as in order to improve human rights mechanisms in Kazakhstan.
Today, many manufacturing industries show growth, "said the head of state.
Over ten years, government spending on the social sphere has increased almost 3 times in actual terms.
- Today in villages there are unresolved issues.
The Vice Minister also stressed that today regional cooperation is relevant, which needs to be intensified within the framework of typhus.
in addition, the mission of the hub is to support the Government's efforts to improve the public service in accordance with its needs.
therefore, we must be prepared for a new wave of crisis.
today we invited representatives participating in the organization of the project.	head of  astana expo-2017 " jsc akhmetzhan yessimov also noted that the document would not be a formality .
According to him, Kazakhstan market has high export potential.
He also noted that, attracting investors, the "zhetysu" is working on the restoration of the aquatic sugar factory.
This is not the first house we are building together with a Kazakh mortgage company, this year we rented a 35-apartment house at fifty, 47/1.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The tourism competition 2015 received about 200 applications from different regions of the republic.
The Netherlands is 65 times smaller than Kazakhstan, but is the second European country in agricultural exports. "
It was noted that the Mangistau Industrial Chamber will provide all assistance to Turkish entrepreneurs and is ready to invest in the agriculture of our region.
we are actively participating in the development of Shu, "said the head of state.
to ensure the level of national security, in order to increase the Kazakh content, as well as acquire a cartridge fund for small arms, create a factory for the production of 5.45 * 39 mm, 7.62 * 54 mm, 9 * 18 mm, 9 * 19 mm rounds of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said B. Kurmanbaev.
it will hold separate meetings with board members - heads of large transnational companies.
the new course of the manata returns revenge from which no one can escape.
the second is the possibility of creating coastal missile systems at a domestic enterprise using the technologies of a French company, "said the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Due to the automation of business processes and the integration of databases and information systems of public authorities, the time to obtain a driver's license was reduced to 2 hours.
In his speech, he noted that entrepreneurs were asked to reduce the time for consideration in second-level banks.
in general, the adoption of the bill will provide the budget with a stable source of income, finance the expenses of the national budget in full.
The next stop point of the social train will be the city of Shalkar, Aktobe region.
At the same time, the decline in world oil prices, a decrease in demand for raw materials and metals also did not affect the development of the region, "said the head of the region.
The project is planned to be divided into three stages and implemented in the period from 2017 to 2020.
The voice is calculated using the information contained in the database.
As the head of state noted, for this it is necessary to use a rational mechanism for the application of interest payments.
All our achievements over 25 years have been made possible thanks to your active participation.
As for innovations in the land code, this is an increase in rental time, the participation of foreign investors in the agricultural sector. as for the amendments to the land code - it 's the increase of the lease term , participation of foreign investors in the agricultural sector .
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization opens up great opportunities for the country to increase trade, including trade with Turkey.
at least 18 thousand jobs will also be created, about 1 thousand infrastructure projects will be implemented.
In addition, guests received information about the achievements of our country in the years after independence.
"We're working on a farm now.
such actions, according to the deputy prime minister, will help companies reduce losses.
The document defines the order of interaction in the process of planning and implementing these transport operations on the basis of generally recognized rules and rules of international law.
in Kazakhstan, everyone is engaged in corporate management.
all paths to our achievement have been realized through unity and peace.
In the twenty-first century, continuous modernization of all spheres of society is becoming the main factor in development.
Akim asked about the preservation of jobs in the company, timely remuneration and provision of the thirteenth month at the end of the year.
various funds, including google, provide $1 billion and provide financial support to startups, "Joseph said.
It should be noted that the Chinese market is also interested in purchasing flour, milk and meat products.
The amount of additional funds for 2016 has been approved. housing development fund " jsc is working on the installation of common house heat meters .
secondly, each election is a method of forming state power.
In addition, a group of lecturers of the central apparatus of the party works in the Karaganda region.
f. Orazbaeva noted that the new textbooks are based on the principles of teaching foreign languages.
its main activities are overhaul, medium and scheduled repair of infantry fighting vehicles, armored personnel carriers, repair of tanks, combat reconnaissance landing vehicle, and a small tractor.
today there is such a situation that it is necessary to change the format of working with voters.
Government is formed by Parliament.
As a result of the implementation of the kindergarten program, the coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years increased 2.5 times, the number of private kindergartens increased 4 times.
To resolve the issue of opening regular flights between Kazakhstan and Egypt, an inspection investigation was conducted together with employees of the Egyptian aviation security, the Kazakh tourism association.
however, they will not replace the functions of the governments of the participating countries in conducting the census: specific dates and programs will be specified, decisions on the conduct of the national census will be made by national governments.
some of our valuable artifacts were destroyed and went to some museums in the world.
The Speaker noted the friendly nature of Kazakhstan's relations with Estonia and Poland, noted the fruitful dialogue between parliamentarians, as well as constructive interaction within the framework of the ecu of the parliamentary assembly.
The President of Kazakhstan also focused on the criminal situation and drew attention to the need to strengthen the security of citizens.
Head of the Ministry of National Economy noted that Serbia is an important partner of Kazakhstan in eastern Europe.
fourthly, on my instructions, an audit and optimization of program documents of state bodies was carried out.
University scientists noted the relevance of the topic "energy of the future" and the importance of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to create a center for the development of "green" technologies and investment projects on the basis of "expo-2017."
in the construction industry there are 10 enterprises for 1,400 people.
it can be divided into three sections.
therefore, tyres are in demand.
on su-30cm aircraft, operating in pairs in conducted training flights, the best were the crews as part of Major Aslan Kulbasov, Habilmazhit Zhanakhmetov, Vladimir, Channel Smagulov.
According to the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management of Almaty, 750 people will be required to carry out activities to maintain parks, squares in the clean from April to November of this year.
In this regard, the bill provides for the introduction of new methods of arbitration.
synchronization of the public community forms a parliament with popular trust. the mobilization of public mass will form the parliament of the national trust , defending the interests of all social groups .
I want to emphasize that Kazakhstan identity is the homogeneity of income of the state, society, in particular every citizen.
However, before these events, an educational program should be developed, that is, to see how much the equipment received works for the innovations of science and the country. "
In this regard, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan made a timely decision to create a center for the rapprochement of international cultures and carried out large-scale work.
Also, according to the school director, during the economic crisis, early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels will contribute to budget savings.
here the fight against corruption itself is becoming more coherent and systemic.
an economic, spiritually rich, free and democratic state.
maintaining jobs primarily in the interests of the entrepreneur himself.
Since the beginning of the year, 450 young lancers have gone to other regions, "said the mayor of the city.
we must enter this system in order to advance our task, "explained the chairman of the board of the joint venture.
An important event was a memorandum on the creation of a joint venture to create a housing fund for military personnel of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, a large business forum was held, getting acquainted with the life of a number of large enterprises in China.
According to him, in 2015, foreign investors were involved in the region, led by the British company United Green, where a solar power plant with a capacity of 50 megawatts was built.
Strategic documents of the country's development: the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan in a new global reality: reforms, growth, development," the new economic policy "nұrly is the way to the future" and the national plan "100 concrete steps."
Nursultan Nazarbayev also got acquainted with the architectural and design process of the city and urban planning solutions.
for these purposes, the parties signed a memorandum on direct supplies, which allows to ensure import substitution, as well as direct sale of products without intermediaries to buyers from manufacturers, as a result of which prices for food products are reduced.
currently, the department is faced with the tasks of eliminating the consequences of the accident, carrying out rescue operations in flooded areas, organizing continuous monitoring of river levels, preparing the necessary equipment and constantly monitoring the state of hydraulic structures.
Of these, 68 business plans and marketing strategies, 352 tax and statistical calculations, 37 companies were trained in the management system, 563 were advised on legal issues, as well as 112 websites and Internet pages, 53 companies are connected to the electronic base of the procurement system, "he said.
in addition, it is not particularly dangerous to the environment.
the test cycle consists of the following stages: machining, measuring lenses, as well as coating (the coating is divided into two types: thin films and diamond carbon).
Governor of the region gave a number of instructions regarding the control of prices for basic types of food, the search for additional reserves for replenishing the budget, ensuring the timely start and quality of all planned construction work.
business has an effective signal, determines which product and how to cook.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan and the Attorney General of Malaysia also noted the measures taken by the authorities of the two countries to eliminate them, taking into account the main tests and threats of terrorism and extremism.
President and. Aliyev thanked the Kazakh delegation for high participation in the forum and spoke about further strengthening of friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan.
According to him, last year, as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, women entrepreneurs released products worth 187.3 billion tenge.
parents take the children.
foreigners, together with local peasant farms, will engage in agriculture.
In general, the meeting approved the concept of holding a World Congress of Engineers and Scientists.
At the same time, the Deputy President of Employers of the Polish Republic noted that Kazakhstan is a strategic state and a Polish partner.
The six-pointed road is not inferior to the European one, and the accident decreases immediately.
privatization opens up opportunities for sectoral economic development in financial and market institutions, such as corporate governance, and business activity increases due to the development of strong competition.	as the expert noted , the program gives an opportunity to encourage the development of financial institutions and management standards .	0,68
The head of Afghanistan also congratulated the President of Kazakhstan on the successful holding of early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament.	the afghan president congratulated also n.nazarbayev on successful organization of the snap elections to the majilis of the parliament .	0,68
The head of state congratulated the Kazakh diaspora on the upcoming 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, noting the importance of preserving and developing the native language, strengthening culture and national traditions, ties with the historical homeland in accordance with the principles of the national idea "Eternal Country."
Most likely, they did not have time to contact the employment center, and here in a short period of time they meet with dozens of employers, leave a resume, go through a preliminary conversation, "said the hunter.
It is worth noting that such technological rules as environmental support for space transportation at the Baikonur space site will contribute to the neutralization of hydrocarbon rocket fuel (kerosene) spills.
According to Mr. Abdykalikova, the celebration of the 25th anniversary of independence will strengthen our statehood in the future.
Ahead of us is a difficult job.
in these words, the head of state has great confidence in the creative potential of the people of Kazakhstan.	this decision was based on complaints of citizens , labor groups , and the scientific and creative community .	0,68
as far as I know, Almaty is building excellent sports facilities and an athletic town.	to my knowledge , a wonderful athletic village and equally impressive sports facilities are built in almaty .	0,68
experts from all over the world will gather in a dialogue platform to share the most effective strategies and practical examples that will help the development of the economy, increase the investment attractiveness of countries, as well as bring business to a qualitatively new level.	the program of the forum includes traditional kazakhstan investment summit , and , for the first time , kazakhstan privatization forum , participants of which will explore where the investment opportunities lie .	0,68
they ensure the effective formation of the union's general electricity market, the report said.
In addition to the company's specialists, well-known figures of oil and gas production in Kazakhstan made presentations.
I am providing you with information on voter turnout as of 6:00 p.m. the cec is ready to provide the information on the turnout in the elections to the majilis and maslikhats of kazakhstan as of 6 pm .
The head of the region, Erik Sultanov, during the solemn event noted that the opening of new enterprises will have a great impact on the socio-economic development of the region.
I am sure that the upcoming parliamentary elections will be another step towards further strengthening the independence of our country. i am convinced that the upcoming parliamentary elections are another step towards strengthening the independence .
Currently, the creation of good conditions for investors is the main goal of investment policy in the country.
A. Bashmakov noted that the UN Secretary General said that Nursultan Nazarbayev, the only one of the heads of state on our planet, has the moral right to appeal to his colleagues and the world community with advice on ending the arms race.
now those who have entered the first grant under the new model will be distributed by local executive bodies in categories depending on the specialty they need, "said Yerlan Sagadiyev.
4 candidates were previously elected to the legislative bodies of the country, another 4 candidates were in various state positions and awarded high state awards, he said.
A. Myrzakhmetov thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his trust and expressed readiness to responsibly fulfill his duties in the new sphere.
this is the water supply of the city of Kokshetau.
bills are sent for consideration by the chamber.
now we are developing our repertoire.
I represent the state sphere of business - this is the most important branch of the country's economy. the women of kazakhstan are challenged to join the top 30 developed countries .
corruption is not only a system of any State, but also one of the main pillars that destroy it. corruption is one of the most important factors of destroying not only the system but also the foundations of any state .
the listener is pleased with the honored figures of Kazakhstan: the Mukhitdins and Airdar Abzhakhans, as well as the Astana Opera Symphony Orchestra, which leads the dream of Orazgaliev and Ruslan Baimurzin.
in this context, it is necessary to implement new programs for the modernization of the national manufacturing industry, to implement budget policies during the crisis.
Managing Director for Legal Support and Risks - Bitens Gani.
According to foos, a complaint against the decisions and actions (inaction) of the election commission and its members in accordance with article 49 of the constitutional law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" is considered by a higher commission within three days from the date of receipt of the complaint, unless otherwise provided by the law on elections.
It should be noted that Astana will host the seventh session of the Ministerial Conference of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on food security and agricultural development.
this agreement is the most important for the financial sector of Kazakhstan, as the opportunities to attract foreign investment in the economy increase.	eastcomtrans will spend these funds on acquisition of 113 tank cars for transportation of liquefied hydrocarbon gases at the domestic , international and transit markets .	0,68
The agreement, signed on Monday, September 15, 2015, regulates the interaction of the states-members of the agreement in the field of transportation of military and other formations, their movable property, as well as military products.	the agreement , signed in dushanbe on september 15 regulates the interaction of the csto member states in the field of transport and other military formations and products .	0,68
The exhibition presented by the Moscow Money Palace is exclusive.
The activities of the commission on the rapprochement of national legislation of Turkpa will become the main effective mechanism for strengthening our cooperation, "he said.
to preserve all this, it is necessary not only to dialogue, but also to offer the world its own method, concept, "said the candidate of historical sciences.
At the same time, all the requirements of our constitution are respected, "said the marat of the Bashimov.
in his report, Asavbayev presented to the audience information about specific projects in the transport and logistics sector as part of a new economic policy that opens up great opportunities for cooperation for the German business environment.
although we have an American name, we try to conduct our work at the global level.
the person who will take the needs of the population with him will be the main supporter. a man , who feels all the needs of the people , is a main good-doer .
providing the population with housing - this contributes to the development of the country's standard of living.
learned to resolve controversial issues arising in relation to property rights through judicial forms. all the same , we are accustomed to resolve any disputes relating to the property rights through the court form .
the country needs professionals who can show their professional level, "members of the association expressed their opinion.
During the trip, R. Zhoshybayev visited the organization "green win."
During the meeting, the information of the Chairman of the West Kazakhstan Regional Court on the implementation of justice by the regional courts, the report of the chairmen of the judicial literary commissions and branches of the Union of Judges was heard.
In addition, in higher educational institutions of Great Britain, Kazakh universities and the future provide an opportunity to share their experience in the field of energy, "the commissioner said.
our famous fellow countryman Andrei Kashechkin also wants to contribute to the region.
In 2014-2015, 28 facilities were introduced, we should create about 200 facilities, so the akims of the regions pay special attention to ensuring the quality of roadside service, construction of facilities, "he said.
In turn, the governor of the Kurgan region Alexy Kokorin noted that the North Kazakhstan region has always been a reliable foreign neighbor and trade and economic partner.
K. Tokayev noted that the initiative to hold early elections is timely, since at the meeting it is necessary to get a new mandate of the population for the clear implementation of the tasks facing the country today.
26.5 million tons of oil were produced in the region, or 101.7% compared to the corresponding period of 2014, 12.4 billion cubic meters. m of associated petroleum gas (102%).
Dariga Nursultanovna - "despite the crisis, the message is sent to the social sphere.
He noted that at present, with the support of Kazkosmos, the national company is looking for ways to cooperate with foreign companies in this direction.
Recently, the director of the company visited Aktobe region with a biazite partner of Saryarka LLP and met with the director of the company nurlybek mukanov.
The Highway Administration was instructed to carry out the maximum repair and restoration of roads within a month.
the highest governing body of the assembly convenes a session by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the right to nominate candidates belongs to the assembly of the council .
this glass cannot be delivered to distant countries.
for example, all types of assets are valuated only in tenge.
in their congratulations they also wished the Kazakh people further development and prosperity.
During this time, Kazakhstan experienced a financial crisis and entered the global economic arena for formation on the market.
the concept of "great steppe" is widespread, with a deep content, a high degree.
Despite the optimization of expenses, President Nazarbayev did not go on to reduce important social programs.
After reaching full capacity, 500 types of garments will be produced and 700 thousand garments will be produced, "he said.
One of the goals of the protocol is to prevent tax exemptions from taxation in cooperation between tax authorities for the exchange of information between the two countries. one of the purposes of this protocol is to extend the cooperation of tax authorities of two countries through the exchange of information on tax matters in order to prevent tax deviations .
for the Czech public and guests of Prague, the embassy presented presentation materials related to the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
discussing ways of economic mutual cooperation, the parties noted the importance of renewable energy sources.
The Minister of Yeek said that within the framework of this, the council of the commission on the implementation of the main directions of industrial cooperation adopted plans of acts.
due to this, the quality of service of Kazakhstan stations for foreigners will be improved, assistance will be provided in obtaining tickets for them, determining routes.
In such a strategic document, the head of state outlined the main tasks that will be done during the global economic crisis.
The objective of 12 years of education is not to support children for another year. the task of the 12-year education is not to leave grown-up children in schools .
compulsory health insurance in case of illness in relation to the profession is also provided.
everything will take place electronically.
for example, the devaluation of the national currency indicates cheaper services for a foreign company.
in addition, a group of grandmothers burst into tears.
B. Baibek noted that the Universiade has already become a driver of the development of the city's economy.
the same, copyright is the combination of the author's personal and property rights or his right to use the production.
unification should become a platform for dialogue, as well as have a platform and mutual support for creative ideas and a desire to strengthen the atmosphere and team spirit. the association should become a platform for dialogue , common goals , a platform of constructive ideas and creativity , mutual support and the desire to strengthen the atmosphere and the spirit of the team .
first of all, this is a search consensus on the creation of the Shu Development Bank.
many countries have joined the policy of inflationary restraint, an extremely flexible course. we see that there are so many factors that can lead to an increase in global economic progress .
in accordance with article 63, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, Parliament or a sitting of Parliament may be dissolved by the President of Kazakhstan after consultation with the Presidents of the Houses of Parliament and the Prime Minister.
the list of awardees is published in the local press.
in these areas there are joint promising projects, in the implementation of which representatives of small and medium-sized businesses of the two countries can take part.
This year, more than 330 people from 30 countries took part in the exhibition.
including leading universities of academic and craft science.
according to the South Kazakhstan newspaper.
According to the director of the center of pricing in construction Bauyrzhan zhanuzakov, the resource method will make it possible to determine the estimated cost of building objects with the actual market current value of materials and equipment, the real wages of construction industry workers, will ensure the prompt updating of the estimate and regulatory framework with new materials, equipment and technologies by forming technological maps for new technologies of construction production.
the first of the obstacles here - at the request of the Chinese phytosanitary service, wheat had to be packed in special bags and have a mouth skin.
the purpose of the project is to support high-quality research and commercialization of technologies important for the country.
summing up the meeting, it was decided to create professional associations and a council.
the report identifies topical human rights problems in Kazakhstan and proposes ways to solve them.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
the reason I say these numbers is because we should never forget the past.
There, the structure of the Eurasian Economic Commission is considering the creation of an internal market activity department, "the report said.
Kh.rukhani expressed confidence that today's visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to Tehran will give a new impetus to Kazakh-Iranian cooperation.
Minister of Culture Helmi al-Namnam and Director of the National Translation Center of the Ministry of Culture of Egypt, Professor Anouar Mugis told the conference participants and emphasized Kazakhstan's achievements in preserving peace and harmony in a multinational and multinational country thanks to the principled policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we agree with the speeches of the leader of the nation and urge all Kazakhstanis in practice to support the new anti-crisis initiative of the head of state, "said Marat Nteubaev
Also, the President of Kazakhstan noted that membership in the integration association means not only the use of opportunities, but also the need to contribute to its development.
Each day the information is updated.
The scope of economic activity is defined by law, in which public hearings on the project are mandatory.
in the article Kazakhstan has gone a very difficult way in a quarter century.
Early parliamentary elections are now a very correct decision. snap parliamentary elections are a good and right thing in the current situation .
In his welcoming speech, the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev noted that the development of the geological industry is a fundamental factor in the economic development of the country.
Note that these elections are very important for the future of Kazakhstan.	mr. ipek stressed that the elections are of great importance for the future of kazakhstan .	0,69
there is no shortage of specialists?	is there any shortage of specialists ?	0,69
the enterprise, which began its activity in 1995 as an individual entrepreneur, turned 20 this year.	this year the company celebrates the 20th anniversary .	0,69
During the meeting, the issues of approving the competitive rate of container, wagon, counter-railer transportation in the territory of the tkhkd were also considered.	the meeting discussed the establishment of competitive rates on tmtm concerning container , wagon , piggyback .	0,69
Recall that the majilis of the parliament included three practices.	i congratulate you on the beginning of work of the chamber of new convocation ,  n. nazarbayev has said .
on its basis is economic restructuring.
Speaking at the meeting, Tamara Duissenova noted that despite the difficult economic situation in the world, it is necessary to make every effort to implement the tasks set by the head of state, including next year to fulfill all social responsibility, prevent the decline in the well-being of Kazakhstanis.
It is worth noting that as a result of previous forums, about 70 memoranda were signed that made it possible to attract investors in such projects as ferroalloys, engineering, and a cement plant.
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held.
The parties positively assessed the pace of bilateral trade, economic and investment development.
the fund will work primarily as a commercial organization, "said N.Skeev.
This year, the housing construction savings bank, as part of the state program for the development of regions until 2020, will provide depositors with housing with a total area of ​ ​ 459,000 square meters. within the program of regions ' development we implement two directions - the housing for all categories and housing for young families .
R. Erdogan, in turn, expressed his readiness to meet with the President of Russia Vladimir Putin.
When attracting domestic specialists, the fund maintains direct contacts with the Future Association and the Kazalans organization, which unites graduates of foreign educational institutions, "he said.
this holiday symbolizes not only unity and friendship, but also great respect for culture, the language of all nationalities who consider Kazakhstan their homeland.
The head of the city noted that the issue of ensuring life safety in the capital remains the main area of ​ ​ work of the city akimat, all city administrations and services should be entrusted with equal responsibility.
Note that in the National Museum in honor of the Great Victory Day, children's matinees will be held from March 14 to 24.
mdm-1 and mdm-2 are designed to destroy surface ships and submarines of all types.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
construction of a road or a building, freight transportation, catering.
The organizers of the event were the national-cultural association of Kazakhs in the Russian regions, as well as the embassy with the support of the Moscow Federation of Kazakh Wrestling and the Federation of Kazakh Wrestling of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the consular office of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation.
This year, the construction of a new Palace of Celebrations in the city of Taldykorgan will begin.
if someone has not completed the plan or, for example, exceeded the amount of chemical use, all this is immediately detected in the schedules.
the second is a commission on issues related to the consideration of citizens' appeals and ensuring transparency in police activities, "he said.
Of course, we were pleased with the preparatory level in the elections.
7.5 trillion tenge was allocated for the implementation of these tasks.
In addition, Almaty residents are happy to use this mode of transport.
carries out geological exploration in Kazakhstan and Russia.
According to akim, it is necessary to fill the gaps before the first decade of May.
As for the relations between Slovakia and Kazakhstan, the transit potential between the two countries is very high.	the document also regulates the procedure of formation of the international tribunal , organized to resolve disputes between the parties in detail .	0,69
The head of the region instructed the villagers to engage in animal husbandry and increase the number of livestock.	the head of the region called the villagers to engage in the animal husbandry and increase the number of livestock .	0,69
Therefore, we must give the younger generation the opportunity to succeed in this life, "he said.
also before the election, the Grechushnikova noted that "today the candidates for deputies present their election program.
I am sure that the current theses of the manifesto introduced by Kazakhstan at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly will be reflected in global strategic initiatives until 2045. i am convinced that the key points of the manifesto will be reflected in the terms of the global strategic initiatives until 2045 , put forward by kazakhstan at the 70th session of the un general assembly .
As for the topic, I cannot say for sure, because a competition for the best idea of ​ ​ the pavilion has been announced in Austria.
sress is an oil engineering and construction company, a division of cnpc, has extensive experience in implementing large global investment projects in many countries, including China and Kazakhstan.
The main goal is to attract investments in the region, promote the best innovative projects of the Kyzylorda region through the Expo-2017 exhibition, "said the head of the g-global international secretariat.
For example, a Russian company expressed interest in building a cement plant in the Zhanakorgan district.
In turn, Mr. Pomersheim noted that the Embassy of Kazakhstan is ready for cooperation in cultural, economic and its own spheres.
In addition, n.nazarbayev noted that the other day in local self-government bodies will have to carry out reform, within the framework of which their budgets will be distributed and new services will be assigned.
unresolved issues lead to a misinterpretation of the result in the integration process. unresolved issues make an impression of the results of the integration process .
The head of state also noted that the initiative will combine meetings and elections to maslikhats, optimize financial and organizational costs.
During the event, the idiot erlan noted that the "diplomatic business club," created on the initiative of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan, has become a popular platform.
for us, on the basis of the principles of independence, impartiality and legality, a reliable guarantee of the stability of justice in society, as well as the rule of law, is effective, "he said.
Currently, reconstruction of three Kazakhstan oil refineries is ongoing. at the moment the reconstruction of three kazakh oil refineries is continued .
in addition, at a meeting of the committee, a bill was considered "On the ratification of the Protocol on Regional Preparedness, Response and Cooperation in the Event of Oil Pollution Incidents to the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea."
The main goal of the National Bank and the government in the medium term is to reduce inflation to 6% -8% in 2016-2017, 5% -7% in 2018, 4% -6% in 2019 and 3% -4% in 2020, "said E. Dossayev.
now 10 industries worth 27.8 billion tenge are operating in the special economic zone.
we learn to be frugal owners of our land and its wealth, master new technologies, launch production facilities and entire sectors of the economy that have never been in our history.
In addition, since the implementation of MP "BZhK-2020" as of 28.03.2016 479 projects of entrepreneurs worth 102.1 billion tenge have been adopted.
At the same time, according to him, a favorable balance between security requirements, freedoms and the rights of citizens remains an urgent issue.
Abdikalikova drew attention to the fact that the main task at the present stage is the implementation of strategic tasks set by the President of Kazakhstan.
With regard to voters, the local executive bodies are responsible for registering voters' lists. as for the voters , now the local agencies are working on updating of the voter list .
I sincerely congratulate Orthodox Christians, all citizens of Kazakhstan on the bright Easter holiday!
At your discretion, a draft outline of the main activities of the meeting was submitted to this parliamentary session. there is a draft plan of the main activities of the majilis for the present parliamentary session .
On the fourth issue, we have received a postponement at the moment, but we will still come to this issue, "said M.Myrzagaliev.
socio-economic development of the country and 100 concrete steps. "
our great compatriot has made an invaluable contribution to world culture, history, geography, and his talent has yet to be studied, "the Kazakh diplomat said.
In addition, the head of state drew attention to the need to carry out a wide outreach work among the population in connection with the holding of early elections to the Majilis of the parliament.
as he noted, disconnecting from the global chain means abandoning technological progress.
Recall that after the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan were scheduled for March 20 of this year, invitations were sent to the first heads of the central election bodies of 18 states on behalf of the CEC chairman.
the result of its implementation was a number of unified productions for the production of optical and electronic devices for various purposes, the production and maintenance of radar and electronic warfare systems, the production of three-year radar stations, as well as the production of body armor.
the same in this word.
According to the president, over the years of independence, 28 new sectors have appeared in the manufacturing industry, 900 industrial programs have been implemented.
representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan.
Now there are 5 licenses.
its answer must be a greater concentration of civilized society. the further consolidation of the civilized mankind can only be the response to terrorism .
During the negotiations, special attention was paid to the organizational basis in connection with the legal, legal peculiarities of the diplomatic activities of Kazakhstan and Spain.
we know what products need to be manufactured to successfully integrate into the global supply chain.
a new bypass road will allow the transit of cars with large cargo to be withdrawn from the Pavlodar city.
with educated personnel and a favorable exchange rate, Kazakhstan is currently promising, "he said. bar.
B. According to Izmukhambetov, the relevance of the idea of ​ ​ the President of Kazakhstan to create a "big Eurasia" in order to generalize large integration projects is growing every year.
7.14% and 7.18% of voters voted for them.
According to the growth rate, the population increased by 22,000 in two years.
According to the register, the number of voters in the country is 9 million 792 thousand people.
this will lead to the development of the country as a whole.
according to the new law, all official transition to public service is carried out only on a competitive basis.
as a result of the agreement with the management of the commission, the manifesto was published as an official document in the electronic system of the UN secretariat and is available to all member states.
On April 6 this year, the President of the country signed a law on employment. compared with 2010 , the unemployment rate fell from 5.8 % to 5 % in the country , the level of female unemployment - from 6.6 % to 5.7 % , " duysenova said .
Experts agree that today compliance with arms control regimes, strengthening reliability and security, is one of the main conditions for a sustainable and peaceful existence, and illicit arms trafficking poses a threat to security.
Also, the agreement on readmission of persons acquires special significance in relation to the exhibition EXPO-2017.
The reason why we will be a little late with harvesting is the lack of agricultural machinery. the main reason that we sometimes late with the harvest is the lack of harvestig equipment .
we need a separate law on the antimonopoly department, the status and procedure of which is clearly regulated.
today, privatization is underway in the republic.
He was delighted with the activity of the Kazakhstani people.
products will be oriented towards export to China.
According to the expert, the Kazakh experience would affect the countries of the former USSR.
9.3 billion tenge, "he said.
As you know, at the enlarged meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan on May 6, 2015, the Head of State Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev for the first time made a speech on the implementation of five institutional reforms on the basis of the Plan of the Nation-100 concrete steps. on may 6 , 2015 president nursultan nazarbayev first voiced the national plan - " 100 concrete steps to implement the five institutional reforms " at an enlarged meeting of the government of the republic of kazakhstan .
first of all, a large public sector - more than 7 thousand enterprises.
I would advise other post-Soviet states to take such a step.
secondly, the whole system of public administration is results-oriented.
I encourage Kazakhstanis to participate more actively in the implementation of the national plan and the implementation of reforms, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by them.
It is worth noting that renewable energy sources occupy an important place in the structure of Czech energy policy.
"Over the past decade, it has been the largest integration project in the CIS and even Eurasia."
On the same day, the President of the National Assembly of the Parliament of Pakistan met with the radar.
Despite the global challenges in the spiritual and cultural sphere, the priorities of Kazakhstan and Russia in the field of education in the spirit of loyalty to the principles of strategic partnership based on citizenship and patriotism, good-neighbourliness and allied traditions that have developed for centuries.
I consider the initiative of the deputies of the parliament to dissolve the deputies of the V convocation and the adoption of meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels a very correct decision. the statement of the deputies of the majilis of the parliament of the v convocation concerning the termination of their powers and holding of the new elections in the supreme legislative body and maslikhats of all levels is very correct and timely .
firstly, the current meeting laid the legislative foundation for the implementation of the "plan of the nation" and fulfilled its historical mission.
nuclear safety assessment is made every two years.
the main thing is that most of the raw materials necessary for the production of glass are found on the spot.
Our country meets the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence with the parliament of the new composition.
in order to verify the moral and psychological condition, the competent authorities conduct an anonymous ethics survey. in order to monitor moral and psychological climate the ethics commissioners will conduct an anonymous survey .
In total, more than 100 military personnel, as well as more than 10 military bombers, were involved in the "Assistance 2016" exercises.
workers who have completed special courses can easily manage complex equipment.
To date, issues of the destruction of passports of persons whose terrorist and extremist activities are exposed are being considered.
the new agreement defines the objectives, status, privileges and immunities of all offices and employees of the World Bank in Kazakhstan.
We have always been president of A.D. We wish Nazarbayev health, good luck in our work today and the future of our country, "said Marat Akhmetov.
it will be very appropriate and convenient in the current situation, "said A. Chukhno.
the number of places in state kindergartens is limited.
Obviously, today's situation will be difficult for large energy resources, especially for us - oil exporters and other countries.
cooperation under the memorandum will be carried out within the framework of meetings of the advisory board.	interaction on the implementation of the memorandum will be ensured in the framework of sessions of the advisory council .	0,69
experience with Kazakhstani enterprises in recent years has shown that it is not difficult for them to work.	in recent years , the experience with the kazakhstani companies indicated that they shoulder a fairly complex operation .	0,69
by interested state bodies, organizations, associations of legal entities in 2017-2023, work began on the formation of a forecast balance of electric energy intensity.
this indicates a desire to organize and hold elections in full accordance with democratic, transparent and national electoral legislation, "said the head of the CIS observer mission headquarters.
Over the past 4 years, 1,460 apartments have been commissioned in Kyzylorda, and this year 2600 families celebrate housewarming.
Today, no expert can predict how the situation will develop further and how to get out of the current situation. nowadays no expert can predict the further development and ways out of the situation .
Is there any mechanism, legislative framework?
Ambassadors and experts of diplomatic missions to the UN, activists of non-governmental organizations, business and academic environment took part in the opening of the event, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
this is a big indicator for the high-tech industry. it 's quite a large figure .
the main goal is to stimulate the population and promote innovative entrepreneurship. the main purpose of the contest is to stimulate the public and promote the innovative entrepreneurship .
To solve it, it is necessary to exchange experience and work together in the framework of meetings. to solve it the teamwork and transfer of experience within the meetings are necessary .
Following the meeting, the Secretary of State gave a number of instructions to state bodies.
inefficient managers are replaced by new owners who bring investments with them.
a special exhibition will be organized on the basis of gifts.
Thus, Kazakhstan, along with other exporters, is introducing anti-crisis measures in connection with the fall in black gold prices.
and after the opening of the polling stations, the number of people wishing to vote became even greater, "says the observer.
On the priority directions of the anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2025, approved by the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are the basis of the state's anti-corruption policy.
Now we will export meat to China, except for Russia, "said M.Duanbekov.
Following the meeting, the Governor of the region gave specific instructions.
they agreed that the assessment of the regulatory impact of technical regulations and its change will be carried out at the stage of public opinion.
In 2014, a memorandum of cooperation was concluded between ha and Anshek, "he said.
This practice was also used in Latvia.
As you know, the head of state pays special attention to improving the investment climate. the president pays special attention to the improvement of the investments climate .
therefore, the quality of management, its group and supplier are highly appreciated here.
terrorism means intimidation of people in French. terrorism " comes from the french word terrorisme .
T.Donakov reported on the results of the activities of the newly created ministry during this period, as well as on the current state of the public service system.
According to him, joint operational-investigative groups are being created in order to suppress transnational crimes, in particular, they will include joint and coordinated measures to suppress drug trafficking passing through Central Asian countries and the territory of Kazakhstan.
And now, when we are entering a new historical stage and are embarking on a large-scale modernization of the country and the clear implementation of presidential reforms in all areas, the parties receive a new mandate of voter confidence, "said Zh.Zhunusova.
- invitations from the CEC were sent to the electoral authorities.
at the beginning of this event, the documentary "Noble Dream" was shown, shot by pupils of the Aymbetov Palace of schoolchildren for space flights.
At the meeting of K. Massimov with representatives of large companies in Hong Kong, the possibility of expanding bilateral business ties was discussed.
According to him, the meat processing plant with limited liability "southern Halal dishes" in the village of Bektobe will be launched at the end of March.
every year we listen with great pleasure to the message of the Head of State N.Nazarbayev. Every year, i look forward to president's address.
growth may also increase if measures are implemented.	however , if these measures are implemented , we think that it would be more .	0,69
because this step will be the basis for coordinating the situation in Syria, "said the Syrian expert.
According to him, the editorial amendments are associated with the termination of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Community.
199.3 billion tenge was invested in the economy of the region, of which 14.2 billion tenge was invested from the outside, "he said.
it is necessary to consolidate responsible persons, and no question should remain unanswered, "he said.
at the stations it is planned to open ticket offices on the eve of the international exhibition "expo-2017."
also met with the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
this is a basic condition for successful confrontations and economic as well as global challenges that overcome the crisis.
the anti-crisis course of the head of state is a force that promotes the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan.
According to the president of the Accola Jewish community Danila Weiss, the goal of the center is to preserve the ethnocultural values ​ ​ of Jews living in Central Asia, to preserve Jewish culture and national traditions.
In addition, the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan proposed to consolidate in the legal plan the basis of production indicators of large capacity of oil refineries and their nature, compliance with the technology of using plants.
According to him, issues requiring serious, comprehensive discussion will be considered in the Council for the Protection of the Rights of Entrepreneurs at the Chamber.
The event was attended by heads of diplomatic missions accredited in Geneva, representatives of international organizations, business circles, non-governmental organizations and Kazakh students studying at Swiss universities.
By the order of the Head of State, Rapil Seithanovich Zhoshybayev was relieved of the post of First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who will continue his activities as Commissioner of the International Specialized Exhibition Expo-2017.
According to him, in general, 103 km of water supply networks have been built in the region.
on the contrary, they will actively fight extremism, terrorism, drug production.
On the basis of this, we put all university leaders in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system.
As part of this project, 16,192 million tenge of investments will be attracted to the region.
today all of us are interested in such questions as what situations are happening in the world economy and what measures should be taken. we are all interested what is happening in the global economy and what should be done .
The President in his message called on the best Kazakhstani entrepreneurs to privatize and legalize their capital.
At the end of the event, the Secretary of State presented Samruk Kazyna veterans with a special monetary certificate presented by white.
our goal is to reach as many potential candidates as possible.
today there is no shortage of domestic gas consumption, and the national operator buys and exports all gas, while questions are received from members of the kazenergy association.	this year , the association is actively improving the conditions of subsoil use , reducing the tax burden on the industry , the legislation in the field of ecology and power .	0,69
Letters were sent to the UN Secretary General, as well as to the permanent representatives of all member states of the world organization.	the relevant letters were sent to un secretary general ban ki-moon , as well as the permanent representatives of all member states .	0,69
a state corporation, kerosene c-1, is aimed at space activities in the Russian Federal Roscosmos, a rocket fuel contaminated with technological rules of microbiological detoxification soil.
During the meeting, Akishev reported to the head of state on the main directions of monetary policy and measures to ensure the stability of the financial sector.
- I am sure that our relations will develop as well and comprehensively.
According to the register, 53 public services are assigned to the ministry, including the ministry serves 40 types and 9 with local executive bodies, and 4 with the activities of the Government for Citizens state corporation, he said.
A working group on the preparation of ski equipment arrived from the Samara city of the Russian Federation. russian brigade from samara came to prepare ski equipment , marked the slope , and determined the land .
the collection presents awards from Great Britain, Japan, Russia, the Vatican, France, Afghanistan, China and other countries.
N. Abdibekov told the guest about the region, its socio-economic development, the work of local bodies to implement the reform.
When energy prices in the world fell, Kazakhstan began the stage of reforms on time, it is desirable that the country's electoral authorities relate to meetings and maslikhats.
this country has provided us with great assistance in the rehabilitation of victims of tests at the Semipalatinsk training ground.
According to him, gas production in Kazakhstan satisfies domestic demand, most of which is exported.
travel firms presented three-day and five-day collections covering all the attractions of the region.
married, has a son.
on the territory of the center there are various multimedia shooting tires, a "robotech" complex, training in sniper shooting, a 4-story residential model for training the actions of approaching the attacked object, combat shooting.
from the early days of our sovereignty, we have made every effort to bring our fraternal peoples closer together.
projects aimed at reducing the subordination of the activities of oil producing enterprises, including legal entities, peasant (farm) farms, individual entrepreneurs and persons, drivers of personal subsidiary farms.
Such programs have been successfully implemented in the capital and Almaty, "the head of the fund said during the signing ceremony.
By a decree of the Head of State at the end of last year, the Ministry for Public Service Affairs was created, and in its structure - the national anti-corruption bureau.
then Kazakhs were concentrated.
There are several reasons for holding elections.
therefore, I called on all countries from the steam rostrum to focus on the formation of a world without conflict.
the relative historical period of today and that time.
additions to obligations.
the townspeople reacted favorably to the combat ranks of the soldiers and joined their speeches.
the creation of a single fund and the management of its national bank cause a contradiction of interests and the pension fund does not work on market conditions.	to do this , of course , the certainty in the financial sector will be necessary , this is a task for the national bank ,  zhamishev has said .
Kumysa is the main dish of Kazakh national cuisine and is the brand of our country. Syzdykova.
Important issues were raised on the tasks facing the party and the people. there was a serious discussion about the challenges the party and the people of kazakhstan faced with .
various regional, republican and international competitions are also organized annually.
Of the 20 candidates, we selected 5, and within a week they prepared their presentations.
Heads of delegation also discussed issues of countering international terrorism and religious extremism.
In Pavlodar, during an extraordinary session of the regional maslikhat, the Karim Massimov read out a letter from the head of state on the nomination of the Bakauov steel zhumabekul for the post of akim of the region, according to the official website of the Prime Minister.
now, to legalize property located on the territory of Kazakhstan and duly executed, it is enough to submit a legalization declaration at the place of residence.
To do this, we need modern ferries to carry out multimedia freight transportation, "said the president of Kazakhstan Railway, UK Asar Mom.
In 2007, he headed the Department of Innovation Policy at the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we have done preliminary preparatory work.
today it is necessary to act clearly.
subscriptions are also made electronically.
I am grateful for the attention paid to the development of cooperation.	since 1996 , an agreement on cooperation between consulate-general and the department of trade representation of kazakhstan is operating .	0,70
Also during the holiday, competitions and fairs for various sports games were organized.	the festival has been unfolded in all settlements of the region , there is the holiday trade , competition in various sports .	0,70
today, smart city and digital shock projects are supported for the development of the digital industry.	the world bank is expected to support and facilitate the mobilization of private investment in the new program of transformational development  digital kazakhstan . "
Another thing is that for many years it is impossible to set international criteria for "terrorism" and terrorist organizations, "he said.
the republican action "Caravan of Charity" continues, "said the head of the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nail Salim.
moreover, in accordance with the law, members of election commissions who are state employees are not paid.
salivary glands in the ears are often affected, as well as the pancreas and subcutaneous glands.
Recall that from January 1, 2016, the solidarity pension payment was increased by 9%, and the size of state social benefits for disability, on the occasion of the loss of the breadwinner and by age was increased by 7%.
There is also the possibility of rotating individual civil servants horizontally and vertically, providing them with official accommodation.
Since 2011, 3242 enterprises have been involved in dual education, the management of 42 colleges has been determined.
all this is closely related to the economy, "said the deputy permanent representative of the Couple Development Program in Kazakhstan.
a quarter of them are foreign investors, "the report said.
the timeliness of the decision was reflected in the global economic situation.
We believe that the Universiade in Almaty will become one of the beautiful sporting events organized at a high level, "said Ms. Ulp, Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of fisu.
Sultanov noted that our republic has a very good investment climate and creates all the conditions for doing business.
there is no similar document of this program, since it is complex.
According to the Chamber, the Vice Speaker during the meeting with the General Secretary of Turkmenistan jandos asanov, deputies of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with halyuk silk and arakhan, deputy of the small assembly of Kyrgyzstan nizam jafarov, deputy of the Supreme Council of Kyrgyzstan abylkayir uzakbayev and other representatives of the mission noted the political significance of the upcoming March 20 elections to the people of Kazakhstan.
Akim thanked for the help in the construction of a residential complex in Almaty for the cynological center of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan on the program to combat drug addiction.
First Vice Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan Karabalin took part in this event. of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In order to provide the regions with medical personnel and employment of graduates of medical universities, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan) implements a set of measures:
1400 apartments will be built near the exhibition.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is not the concept that appeared yesterday. the idea of " mangilik el " has been continueing from ancient turks time .
Most memoranda by region are concluded with enterprises of Kostanay and Akmola regions.
The thousands of education of Kazakhstan was initially predetermined by interethnic and interfaith uprisings.
During the assessment of reserves, it is clear that the subsoil of Kazakhstan is much higher, "he said.
The main task of the city is to attract investment, create jobs.	the main task that i set to the city is attracting investment and creating new jobs .	0,70
In his speech B. Beknazarov noted that the reforms are aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, the need to comply with legislation and strengthen the rule of law.	in his speech , beknazarov stressed the fact that the reforms are aimed to ensure the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens , the need for strict observance of the laws and the rule of law .	0,70
During the electoral campaign period, the territorial election commissions held about 900 seminars, meetings, trainings and other events on the legal training of election organizers. the election commissions have conducted 900 seminars , meetings , trainings and other events for the legal training of officials .
I am proud of your friendship, the friendship of the Kazakh and Uzbek peoples.
As the expert noted, not a single investor will arrive on the land for a short time.
on a sectoral basis, it is planned to improve the program for the creation of a common eeo gas market.
the company plans to start production of various juices to create additional new jobs.
in addition to ski competitions, competitions in eight more sports were held at neighboring venues.
During the meeting, issues of preparation and further development, cooperation, logistics of special forces of ministries and departments were discussed.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
This is 5 thousand jobs, "the Governor of the region said.
these measures are aimed at stimulating the work of scientists and their real contribution to science, the development of a knowledge-based economy. "
Due to the change in the number of voters in the city, work has been completed on determining the boundaries of polling stations and the boundaries of constituencies in the districts. in connection with the change in the number of voters the cities , districts have completed to clarify the boundaries of the electoral districts , the boundaries of the polling stations .
we are the heirs of the great steppe, "said the leader of the nation.
in the districts and banks of local executive bodies, propaganda is poorly carried out. one of the adopted amendments is the cancellation of 10 % fee for early withdrawal of legalized money from bank accounts .
Recall that a round table meeting was held in the capital to discuss issues of changing effective management in turbulence.
the adoption of a universal UN document in this area and the creation of a global anti-terrorism coalition and network within the organization are concrete goals of work.
A. Batalov noted that the main program document for the development of the region was a plan specially developed for this purpose, which includes sixteen areas.
In the future, we plan to provide the domestic market before exporting meat, dairy products produced in the region, "said seisengazy Chukaev.
this was facilitated by the economic policy of the state and government.
The forum participants emphasized the significant efforts of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan to create a favorable information environment for the citizens of Kazakhstan.
Also, the head of the region instructed the head of the Department of Agriculture to consider the possibility of including this project in the agricultural product processing map.
He noted that changes in the legislation make the activities of cooperation transparent.
Recall that the previous peacekeeping exercise "steppe golden eagle - 2014" was held in the federal republic of Germany.
an exhibition dedicated to expo 2017 was organized in the rotunda of the central hall of the steam Vienna branch.
ensuring food security on the global sustainable development agenda. the issue of ensuring food security will be very important for the agenda of sustainable development .
Also here, the President of Kazakhstan was informed about the main indicators in the field of trade and socio-economic development of the city as a whole.
Most importantly, in the first quarter we improved labor safety measures in our industries and created conditions for favorable work. the most important thing is we significantly improved the working conditions and safety at facilities .
the special role of local executive authorities in the process of socio-economic transformation, since they are entrusted with the goal of strengthening legislation and ensuring reform initiatives of the president at the regional level, "he said.
construction work will begin early next year and will be completed before the end of the year.
The court also brought to administrative responsibility in the form of a fine in the amount of 30 monthly calculated indicators.
therefore, it will be necessary to open scientific discoveries and realize legal opportunities of interest to a person.
in Shymkent, documents are being developed for the construction of modern prisons with 1,500 places.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, this year "snps-aktobemunaigas" amounts to 22.5 billion tenge. it is planned to introduce an expansion facility for a 160 MW gas turbine power plant with an investment volume.
The parties expressed readiness to ratify the agreement on cooperation in these areas.
mandatory legal conditions for women's right to work have been created in the Republic. the country is implementing legal framework for the women 's right to work .
I support early elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels of the Republic of Kazakhstan. i support the decision to hold early majilis and maslikhat elections .
participation of all citizens of the country, civil society institutions, state bodies in the organization and implementation of the Year of Kha. in 2015 kazakhstan has completed the construction of all friendship houses , " he has said .
78.9 thousand citizens applied to employment centers and were employed without state support measures.
bakytzhan sagintayev and igor shuvalov also discussed topical issues within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The head of the region visited the village of Aksay, where he got acquainted with the work of a secondary school, a mini-center and a roadside service.
During the talks, the parties discussed the current state of Kazakh-European trade and investment cooperation, including in the agro-industrial complex, and the prospects for its deepening.
mass New Year events are held in military units, regional commands of types of armed forces of Kazakhstan and military branches these days.
the text of the law is published in the press.
On December 10, 2011, at the initiative of the deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan "was adopted.
The festival, organized by tradition by the Governor's Office of the capital, opened the winter sports season in the capital.
In his speech, the head of the region noted that this project is needed not only for the region, but also for the country as a whole.
As part of the second wave of privatization last year, the region's utility - the center for the formation of a healthy lifestyle - was put up for auction four times and declared unsuccessful due to the lack of a buyer.
We see that entrepreneurs in other countries faced difficulties, many were forced to close the professions that they do.
As for the capacity of the enterprise, it can produce 500 thousand pairs of shoes per year.
During the meeting, the heads of government discussed issues of cooperation in gas production and transportation.
therefore, our country, like another state, can get a good income.
to meet the need for personnel depending on the list of specialties.
Representatives of the member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation are informed about the ongoing work with Kazakhstan on the creation of the organization.
K. Aktaeva cited the words of the president on the occasion of the 15th anniversary of independence.
the Constitutional Council considers the issue and decides on the proposals of the deputies.
there is infrastructure at low-load facilities, but there is no quality.	it is not good for customers ,  - said ye . birtanov .
According to the head of the company, analogue research is planned to be presented at EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Nikita Chaynikov and Alisha Nurmagambetova are preparing to play the role of the son of chio-chio in the play.
market economy - competition of forces.
e.biz drew attention to the fruitfulness of the negotiations held in our country and expressed confidence in further cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan on all issues identified at the meeting.
In 2016-2020, it is planned to transfer up to 90% of projects to the private market.
Mayor of Almaty at a meeting with the Minister of Tourism and Sports spoke about the tourism and economic potential of the metropolis.
The Chairman of the Majilis noted the additional stimulus measures offered by Kazakhstan for foreign investors.
The Assembly, created on the initiative of the head of state, who has become black, this year marks the 20th anniversary.
This year it is planned to launch several more joint industries in mechanical engineering, pharmaceuticals and the oil sector.
their main goal is to create equal conditions for candidates, participate in the election process, prevent and timely eliminate various violations occurring in the election campaign, and predict possible measures of administrative resources.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov spoke about the socio-economic development of eastern Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that uncontrolled migration, illegal settlements of arbitrarily occupied lands are becoming a favorable environment for crime.
Deputy akim of the region also noted that teachers of Kazakh, Russian, English languages will undergo three-month retraining during spring and summer work holidays.
dried fruit, carpets and leather products are imported from Afghanistan.
This exhibition is open at the National Museum for about a month.
B.Sagintayev also drew the attention of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan to ensure control over the increase in the share of local content in procurement.
During the meeting, the preparations for the international exhibition Expo-2017 were discussed.
pricing on the housing market is carried out according to a selected circle of organizations performing real estate operations on the city fund, including construction companies in the capital, the city of Almaty and regional centers.
According to M. Bekmeev, now there is no time to slow down, it is necessary to use all the opportunities for the rapid development of Kazakhstan.
G. Abdykalikova expressed confidence that the further implementation of joint projects on the basis of cooperation and wide public dialogue between museums will contribute to the promotion of cultural heritage and the education of civic consciousness in our multi-ethnic societies.
10 minutes before 20:00 we will go to the station and see how voting will be considered, "he said.
It is worth noting that more than two thousand people gathered at the meeting.
I want to tell all socially vulnerable people.
as a result, the city of Turkestan (2013 and 2015) In particular, the construction of one agets aimed at gas supply to the Baidibek district and Sozak districts (2015) is underway, as well as the supply of gas to the shayan settlement.
The main goal of the event is to familiarize with the culture, traditions and art of the Kazakh people, who celebrated the 550th anniversary of their statehood this year.
In order to improve the safety and inventory capabilities of long-term forest management, members of the working group sent special proposals to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to amend the forest and tax codes.
According to the speaker, coordination work will be carried out within the framework of macroeconomic policy.
In particular, there is a house-building plant, an innovative complex, an oil refining complex, "he said.
according to him, it should be borne in mind that international business needs calm and stability.
Another topic of the conversation was the elections to the Majilis of the parliament, where a representative delegation from the international observer mission will go from the Federation Council.
In addition, K. Tokayev noted the need to adopt legal acts in the implementation of the "Nұrly zhol" program and became the main topic of parliament.
In preparation for the international exhibition EXPO-2017, special banners and thematic video videos will be posted at railway stations.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that Kazakhstan will continue its efforts to rebuild Afghanistan.
Today, the construction of a plant for the processing of oilseeds is planned in the northern zone, "he said at a press conference.
representatives of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" congratulated residents on memorials, wished prosperity and further development.
We also hope that in the regions they will begin to apply experience, "he said.
the participants of the meeting also discussed issues of possible cooperation in the field of information technologies that ensure electoral processes.
So, large retail chains of the metropolis got acquainted with the potential of the food industry of the East Kazakhstan region during the exhibition organized by guests.
this is the result of the collapse of statehood through the intervention of external forces in the internal affairs of independent states.
This center is equipped with modern equipment.
under the mechanism of "interest rate subsidies" - 100 projects.
The administration of institutions and public authorities have made recommendations for improving conditions of detention.
Nursultan Nazarbayev called cooperation with Central Asian states as an unconditional priority for our republic.
Members of regional election commissions held seminars-meetings on schedule, "said m.sarybekov.
In turn, this will give impetus to joining the number of developed countries, "he said.
Along with this, the March holiday will be held in the country, this is a symbol of good.
four projects are under consideration and development.	there is a project to increase the capacity of meat processing complex in aktobe region .	0,70
The total operating budget of the Student Games is optimized by 2 times and amounts to 17 billion tenge.	recall that the winter universiade will be held in almaty from january 29 through february 8 , 2017 .	0,70
more than 250 companies were delivered in the hypermarket, of which 137 were Kazakh manufacturers, 45 were companies in Pavlodar and the region.	it is noted that the hypermarket presents more than 250 companies , of which 137 are kazakhstani producers , 45companies represent pavlodar and pavlodar region .	0,70
it is important to ensure synchronous work with the government of the country to fulfill the instructions of the head of state.	it is necessary to ensure the synchronous operation with the government on implementation of president 's instructions .	0,70
The Republic of Kazakhstan has invited many observers from foreign States and international organizations.
such meetings are of great importance for Kazakhs living away from their historical homeland.
inalca eurasia decided to invest more than 100 million euros in the country's meat industry, these investments will be aimed at creating a vertically integrated company for the construction of fattening sites with a total capacity of 44 thousand heads in three regions of the republic.
The new Penal Enforcement Code clearly classifies the conditions of detention of convicted persons according to the degree of correction.
At the end of the meeting, a memorandum was signed on the creation of a consortium of tour operators of the Turkish Council countries.
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on holding joint events in honor of the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, strengthening China's ties with the friendly community with foreign countries.
we have all this preserved in the eo.
Therefore, we will raise not only the energy topic, but also the issue of its impact on the environment, "said A. Yessimov, head of the national company.
The volume of investments in the project is 38 million tenge, including through the "taraz" akk "uk - 15 million tenge, at the expense of the farms themselves - 23 million tenge (sheep and feed).
1.1 million cubic meters of wood can be used to implement an export reduction program, "the akim said.
gradual development of the education system in Kazakhstan
incomprehensible situations occur in many States.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the AC, the further development of the country and overcoming problems will make it possible to form a single nation of the future.
Following the meeting, an agreement on mutual cooperation was concluded, a memorandum was signed on the implementation of investment projects related to renewable energy sources.
According to him, holding early elections at the meeting will positively affect the economic development of the country.
a delegation of the crirsco committee arrived in the capital.
at the same time, me. hammock confirmed its readiness to visit Kazakhstan in the medium term.
our businessmen not only implement projects in their interests, but also create production demand for other economic sectors.	ye.sultanov also told that our businessmen implement projects profitable for the region and the country .	0,70
The Minister noted that in 2016-2018, the work of stabilization funds for commodity interventions on socially significant food products, effective use and timely replenishment of resources will continue.	he has also reported that in 2016-2018 stabilization funds will continue working on commodity interventions on socially important food products , efficient use of resources and timely replenishment .	0,70
participants of the meeting got acquainted with the work on loading and unloading of goods and border-customs clearance.	the participants got acquainted with the process of loading and unloading operations and border customs clearance of ships .	0,70
As the entrepreneur noted, he follows the nominated applicants, who, in his opinion, are masters of his profession.	according to the businessman , he oversees the party lists and in his opinion  there are professionals among the candidates for the majilis deputies . "
- State support should be an effective tool for rural employment.
looking at all Kazakh military uniforms, they feel how much responsibility lies with them.
On January 20, the head of state signed a resolution on the dissolution of meetings of the Parliament of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
personally put the laboratory in control.
our main theme is the preservation of family values. "
participants of the meeting exchanged views on the state and prospects of Kazakh-Georgian cooperation in various areas of activity of mutual interest, including law enforcement reform.
according to the results, the best divisions were selected.
After entering information about the offense in the unified register of pre-trial investigations within 3-4 minutes will be reflected on the map.
According to him, a preliminary forecast of tariffs for the model for 5 years.
During the meeting, the Kazakh side informed the German participants that in 2016-2020. with a comprehensive privatization plan, its targets, and also presented a detailed list of facilities.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country is associated with Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan strong traditions based on fraternal relations and friendship, mutual respect, which are rooted in the history of centuries.
sociological surveys also show stable high support for all five reforms of the national plan. social surveys also demonstrate the support people express of the national plan .
I watch how often parents try to transfer their children to university.
this is a reasonable decision, "he said.
unity and identity in the fourth reform combine six steps. the fourth reform involves six steps .
the current global crisis has not come as a surprise to us.
who to take, whom to put - a dining conversation.
because in our regions there is a lot of valuable heritage, valuable exhibits.
the signed agreement will create conditions for concomitant production, will increase the capacity of the plant and ensure the preservation of jobs.
According to the press service of the EEC, the union discussed barriers to the formation of the commodity market.
Note that this project is fully financed by foreign investments.
The memorandum provides for broad cooperation in all economic activities.	memorandum creates opportunities for the development of relations in all areas within the competence of the eec .	0,70
Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the Chan-dau good health, success in its activities, and well-being to the friendly Vietnamese people.	n. nazarbayev also wished trần đại quang strong health and success in his work , he also wished wellbeing and prosperity to all the people of vietnam .	0,70
I note with satisfaction the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and Russia, based on centuries-old traditional friendship and good-neighbourliness.
Also, law enforcement and control agencies reveal facts of violations in the implementation of this program, inefficient use and losses of budget funds.
You raise the spirituality of the nation, promote your culture, "the head of the region said during the meeting.
secondly, we must stop uncompromising attacks on our country.
The head of state noted that since these contacts have developed for many years, the parties should be responsible for their preservation.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan signed a memorandum with the High Commissioner, the Assembly of People of Russia, the Assembly of People of Tatarstan, and the Assembly of People of Kyrgyzstan. "
tender for exploration of oil and gas sectors showed the presence of investors. that tender , which we announced on exploration in the oil and gas sector , has shown that there are investors .
The Governor of the Gendarbek district of Dalabai and the Deputy Head of the Regional Health Department of the Marat Suleimen congratulated with joy.
large and small operating rooms are prepared for round-the-clock neurosurgical operations and are provided with special equipment.
According to him, the main task is the development of domestic tourism, as well as the creation of comfortable conditions for tourists and tourists.
the enterprise becomes export-oriented.
I think that this movement will give a new impetus in the field of vocational education and training, "he said.
Within the framework of the forum, a round table will be held on the topic: "State support for the agro-industrial complex."
the school is equipped with a modern educational and material base necessary for the high-quality organization of training, education, improvement of physical culture.
He noted that each program signed by the head of state is aimed at improving the standard of living of each citizen of the country.
firstly, the current meeting fulfilled its historical mission and prepared the legislative framework for the "plan of the nation."
in addition, we need to ensure that all law enforcement agencies, and especially the police, are involved in the promotion of people's interests and the rule of law.
The Head of State in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" emphasized the importance of developing transport, logistics, industrial and energy infrastructure and creating new directions of energy transportation, and the completion of the Kazakhstan-China infrastructure project is a great contribution of the country's gas transportation industry to the implementation of presidential instructions.
Next month, the head of the council is to present a plan for the further development of the EAO Business Council.
this is one of the largest missions in our country.
The Chairman of the Board also noted that a trade and economic mission was held in Yekaterinburg, Novosibirsk and Moscow regions with the participation of the Kazakh team.
also provides technical know-how and experience in various aspects, provides a stable social connection.
Thus, due to the reduction of the rented land of the landfill by the Russian Federation, the amount of the lease will be changed.
the task of the election commissions is to receive persons applying for deputies of the maslikhat.
According to the established good tradition, every year on the eve of Independence Day, the head of state N.Nazarbayev awards a significant group of citizens of Kazakhstan deserved for the development of the country with state awards. we are presenting the awards of kazakhstan to the best representatives of the people , who have deserved high recognition in our country by their creative labor .
The Council will strengthen cooperation between the State and investors.
At the 7th Central Asian Mining Forum, constituent documents were signed on the creation of an authorized center for the mining and metallurgical complex.
we form an anti-corruption position with the promotion of an anti-corruption program.
we have prepared the necessary funds to participate in the exhibition and are very happy to take part.
in this list, the most important attention is paid to technical specialties, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
In 25 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the holiday of the main attributes acquires a special importance. the day of state symbols is an evidence of the identity and sovereignty of the state .
participated in many of his priority elections.
inefficient costs or costs that can be met by the private sector.
Obviously, the amendments gave a good impetus to the process of legalization. it is evident that the amendments gave the good momentum for the legalization course .
to date, the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan is exercising the right to receive refined gold to replenish the assets of precious metals.
... "There is a financial flow that is invested in women's entrepreneurship.
The CIS and Shu Observer Mission has the right to be an observer in the presidential, parliamentary and referendum elections.
Kazakhstan advocates a complete ban on nuclear tests in the world as a country that has survived the scourge of nuclear weapons, initiated the adoption of a resolution of the UN General Assembly, which voluntarily abandoned nuclear arsenals and declared August 29 an international day against nuclear tests, and China, with the participation of Russia, the Republic of Korea and Japan, call for the immediate resumption of negotiations on a six-party nuclear issue.
the only way to solve it is to start dairy farming.
they create jobs, pay taxes and are socially responsible.
And for the development of livestock there are extensive pastures and hayfields, the Governor of the region informed the guests.
if during the auction this land will not be realized, then it will be provided with a minimum cadastral price. if land was not sold following the results of two auctions , the n there will be the reduction of inventory prices to a minimum threshold of 50 % .
millions of women in the rear, including women of Kazakhstan, contributed to the defense of our country with their grace and trust, love, surpassed the high spirit of the soldiers, becoming co-authors of the great victory.
this also gives indicators.
it is a phenomenon that will be renewed.
After a few moments, we enter a new year - 2016!
every month we meet with the leadership of the head of state at a meeting, work on the investment climate, the investment ombudsman.	as the minister said every month the agency holds the meetings under the leadership of the head of state and discusses issues of the investment climate and the ombudsman .	0,70
according to the rector, market economy is a competitive force, in this case, representatives of the professional environment need to concentrate their forces and opportunities with higher educational institutions and science in order to be energetic and strong.	according to the rector , the market economy is the competition of the strong , and to become an active and strong player in the current environment , the business environment representatives of the country need to consolidate their efforts and opportunities with the universities and science .	0,70
years will pass, but this life experience, no matter what life path you choose, will certainly be useful to you.	and years from now this life experience will certainly be useful whatever future you choose .	0,70
Kazrc association has been appointed a member of the crirsco committee from the Republic of Kazakhstan, A.Isekeshev said.
Much attention is paid to agriculture.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
morning training begins in the camp.
Together with representatives of all faiths, Orthodox Christians make a significant contribution to strengthening interfaith harmony, stability and unity in Kazakh society.
job cuts are not expected, despite lower prices in the mining and metallurgical industry. job cuts are not expected in the mining and metallurgical sector of kazakhstan , despite the fact that the prices are very low .
in this regard, e, idriss sent employees of the department to increase efficiency and efficiency.
One of the main results is the high confidence of the international financial institutions in us.
by conducting them now, we parliamentarians will ensure all possible functioning, "he said.
In addition, infrastructure issues were resolved: 4,000 km of roads were built and modernized.
Money in the amount of 305.2 billion tenge was legalized, of which by November 30, 2015 80.9 billion tenge; According to 248 declarations - 253.0 billion. Tenge, "- said in a statement.
in her welcoming speech, gulshara abdykalikova noted that he dedicated the bright and multifaceted life of a famous public and statesman, scientist, journalist and ethnographer alikhan Bokeikhanov for the freedom and future development of the Kazakh people.
Speaking about Kazakhstan's active position on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, the Secretary of State reaffirmed our objectives and goals aimed at the architectural construction of a new global security.
products processed from ash dumps are in great demand and contribute to improving the ecological situation of Almaty. recycling ash will produce products of high demand and to improve the ecological situation in almaty .
Therefore, we will bring the results of this audit to the head of state.
Of course, the election results can create stability, technicality, continuity in reforming our country. finally , the election can become a factor of stability .
in my opinion, this is an effective impulse.
Thus, pupils of the city palace of schoolchildren congratulated representatives of labor collectives and state institutions, law enforcement agencies and non-governmental organizations, as well as deputies of the maslikhat.
He also noted that some shortcomings will be transferred to the central election commission.
And in the agriculture of the region there is growth.
for this purpose, the parties have the right to cooperate in the following areas: exchange of information on the prevention, detection, suppression, disclosure and investigation of crimes in the field of information technology, planning and implementation of coordinated measures and operations, execution of requests for operational-search measures and procedural actions, as well as assistance in training and training of personnel, conducting joint scientific research on problems of mutual interest.
Following the meeting, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies.
The document was signed in order to develop cooperation between the member states of the EAEU and the Singapore Republic, the press service said.
It should be noted that the competence of the Commissioner for Ethics includes the supervision of the standards of service ethics and the prevention of violations of the legislation on public service, the fight against corruption and the code of ethics of public servants of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the holding of consultations of public servants and citizens within their activities.
our president set the task of entering the 30 developed countries of the world.
Following the meeting, plans were developed to improve the information of the population on health development programs, the development of public-private partnerships in the field of health care, and training programs for medical workers.
Following the meeting, K. Massimov instructed members of the government to ensure constant control over the flood situation, as well as uninterrupted sowing.
According to the representative of Roscosmos, according to the results of 2015, great successes have been achieved in bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, the space industry.
they correspond in scale to the scale of the reforms that we carried out in the 90s.
they react quickly and offer concrete solutions to society.
As Y. Karin noted, the creation of an automated logistics service system without a comprehensive reform and modernization of the economic trade system will not have an effective impact.
The Government of Kazakhstan has adopted and is gradually implementing a plan of measures to protect the rights and improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities for 2012-2018.
In accordance with this order, the ministry initiated the construction of 42 sports and recreation complexes.
development of draft concepts for the formation of a common gas market and common markets for oil and petroleum products.
The event was organized by the republican youth center of Kokshetau and the Association of Veterans and Disabled of the Afghan War in Akmola region.
State support for those who can work should be provided only on the basis of their participation in retraining or employment programmes.
signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Legal Acts" aimed at regulating public relations in the field of normative legal acts and legal acts
during the global crisis, it is possible to save funds and quickly implement large-scale reforms of Kazakhstan by reducing the midterms, not too long between the two elections.	according to him , not prolonging of the election cycle during the crisis and synchronization of two election campaigns is the significant reduction in costs from the state treasury .	0,71
but on all sides we did not raise prices for our products.	however , we have not raised prices .	0,71
Speaking to the audience, Erbolat Dossayev assured that he would make every effort to effectively implement the instructions of the head of state and further develop the state development institution.	addressing the speech , yerbolat dossayev assured that he would make all efforts for the effective implementation of the tasks of the head of state and the prosperity of the institute .	0,71
According to him, there were no comments and proposals from the deputies.	in his words , kazakhstan intends to sign analogous treaties with france and germany in the near future .	0,71
Senior Nurse, Presidential Affairs Medical Center:	senior nurse of heat-water therapy branch of the medical center of the office of the president of kazakhstan saltanat kassymova :	0,71
the volume of tenge deposits in banks increases.	local-currency deposits number has increased .	0,71
bills are sent for consideration by the chamber.	the documents have been submitted to the senate .	0,71
such a step would lead to a long-term solution.	this approach will lead to necessary solutions .	0,71
At the same time, it should be noted that an unprecedented type of production is carried out in the republic only in the Posad district.	this project implemented by the company  akmergen " llp is located in kargaly rural district , where reeds plant grows extensively .
The Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan should draw up a plan for the next year of vocational and technical education for the implementation of the project.
this is the fourth fair held by the employment center since the beginning of the year.
in addition, damage can occur through everyday household goods, toys, saliva of the infected.
Kazakhstan is on the way to a full-fledged democratic system, and the elections will help to pass this path. for 25 years kazakhstan has made a big step forward .
the text of the law is published in the press.
they perform experimental functions.
Recall that in 2016, the people of Kazakhstan first celebrated the Day of Gratitude.
elections were held openly, publicly and recognized as organized at a high level.
monkey is a well-developed animal with artistic art.
For this, by decree of the president, a special national commission was created, the main organizational work was launched last year.
it has become the most powerful sector of the economy in a number of states, which sows a deadly seed, increasing the potential of the military-industrial complex.
If in different parts of this area they themselves begin to produce fuel tablets, then on weekdays it is quite possible to manufacture "armed material."
In her speech, N. Kalashnikova noted that on the eve of the New Year, the Head of State signed two particularly important orders directly related to the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation.
Today, the Kazakh army is fully ready to defend our independent state and people. today the kazakh army in is ready to defend the independence of our country .
the second program is employment.
most importantly, this road leads to a new bridge connecting the left bank.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
- Head of the Department of Economics of West Kazakhstan State University named after M. Ntemisov lily mergaliyev;
The meeting of the public council was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.a.a.smagulov, m.m.hsanova and head of the National Center for Human Rights v.a.
they pass openly and fairly.
all this shows that for all citizens Kazakhstan is the homeland. we are all children of one country .
in the village of Araltogai, Aytekebi district, Aktobe region, there is a meat processing cooperative. it 's a cooperative for the production of meat in araltogai village in aktobe region .
the country accounts for 3-14% of world production.
covering budget expenses at the expense of the national fund is not a limit.
According to him, a number of families received help, there are no statistics yet.
According to him, memoranda are already being concluded with shopping centers for the installation of networks.
Rusatom is a large corporation that not only deals with cloud nuclear energy, but also receives energy from thermal, hydropower, solar.
elections will make it possible to make the right decisions on updating the composition of parliament. "
work in each locality takes place according to its individual plan and most of them are favorable and correspond to the economic and social development of the region.
in the international arena, we see your country both within the framework and within the framework of the global document - "peace. XXI century. "
In East Kazakhstan region, the process of legalization of property is still underway. the head of state instructed to simplify legalization procedures .
Following the meeting, the Governor of the region gave specific instructions to the heads of responsible state bodies.
Gulshara Abdykalikova expressed satisfaction with the results of the negotiations between the tax services of the two countries on the Convention on the Elimination of Double Taxation.
To date, 24 countries have joined the session of the founders of the Islamic organization for food security, which will be held in the capital on April 28 this year.
Also, with the participation of the Development Fund, a tripartite agreement was signed in support of entrepreneurs who produce agricultural products in the regions.
Since the beginning of 2016, active implementation of the tasks specified in the program document has begun. since the beginning of 2016 , the body started practical implementation of the policy document .
to enter the military department, it is necessary to undergo a medical examination of the girls and pass the standards for physical training and psychological testing.
At the same time, not every second teacher has proved his average level, of which 27% speak at the basic level and 27% at the elementary level.
The agenda discussed ways to define investment disputes, as well as the draft new code of ethics and rules of judging in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I believe that parliament needs new people who should know the economy and the legal sphere well, "he said.
according to the parties, the liberalization of the visa regime will contribute to increasing contacts between the people of the two countries, increasing the tourist flow and strengthening bilateral economic ties.
From year to year, a lot of work is carried out on deep processing of milk and meat products.
We decided where to turn for help to people with severe diagnoses, "said the children's pulmonologist of the world azhakhmetova.
In September 2015, a kindergarten for 140 places was opened on Gogol-Sverdlov Street in the amount of 244 million tenge.
this is precisely the peculiarity of our Kazakhstanis.
difficult tasks and challenges in such a difficult period, "said A. Boldashevsky.
we sent letters to members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. the letters to the participants of the commonwealth requesting their representatives to the cis observation mission have been sent .
Adaulbaev noted that the Prosecutor General's Office is ready for a constructive dialogue with international observers on all issues related to ensuring the rule of law in the electoral period.
As a specialist in the field of education noted, the main goal of a modern school is to educate an educated, knowledgeable generation.
cooperation between the two states, as a result of which the branches of the national economy significantly increased with the creation and beginning of the Eurasian Economic Union. the cooperation of the two states has grown significantly since the beginning of the eurasian economic union .
The event was attended by Prime Minister Karim Massimov and extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassadors of the European Union countries in Kazakhstan.
in general, the indicator of the air basin in the city is environmentally friendly for the life of the population.
The total area of the exhibition is 90 thousand square meters, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan.
I think that the initiative to hold early elections to the Majilis of the parliament was put forward in a timely manner, it does not contradict the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the initiative of the deputies of the majilis on dissolution and holding snap elections is timely , the more it is not contrary to the constitution of kazakhstan .
the company also developed a new investment policy aimed at improving the efficiency of investment activities, introduced a system of competitive selection of personnel and evaluation of performance on PCs.
Google will be connected to us, which will provide an examination of many data. google joins us , it provides an analysis of numerous data .
I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely congratulate you on the successful military operation in Syria, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov.
The large-scale competition of military musicians of the Shu member countries will be attended by personnel of military orchestras of the Kyrgyz Republic, the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and the Republic of Kazakhstan.
b. about the tasks and rules of the mission's activities, about the preparatory work for the early election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this is the case for public and private bodies, so free and private courts will work in this area.
During this period, there were changes in the technology of providing postal services, the demand of the population for some postal services, such as electronic commerce, electronic services, etc., is growing.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the need to stabilize inflation processes by the end of the year, prevent sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate of the national currency and ensure lending to the economy by second-tier banks.
As part of the program of increasing the area, we received a land plot from the Tselinograd district akimat and in 2014 we switched to the implementation of this investment project.
Graduates receive information on relevant professions and educational opportunities.
such social programs will allow not only living without risk, but also developing, "the akim said.
I wish everyone good health, professional success, family well-being and well-being in the development of our republic, "the head of state said in a congratulation.
relying on eternal moral values, mutually respecting and supporting each other, we were able to strengthen peace and harmony in our common home.
senior, known not only for our region, but also for the whole country. abish kekilbayev is a significant figure for the whole country .
The next stop point of the train is sacred Turkestan.
The purpose of the event is to improve the quality of life of veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
For this work, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, joint efforts, organizational work and political freedom are necessary.
According to the director, the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence is a big and outstanding history of the country's victory.
He will take measures for the social rehabilitation of citizens released from prison, "he said.
He also said that the summit of the heads of state of the organization will adopt a declaration on the development of the SHU until 2025.
at the meeting of the Chairman of the Senate with the Director of the Bureau for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, Michael Link, it was a question of diak projects in Kazakhstan, as well as the election campaign for the meeting.
In accordance with the macroeconomic indicators adjusted by the government, the estimated dollar exchange rate is from 300 tenge to 360 tenge.	this increases volatility in financial and commodity markets ,  the minister said .
the result of this remarkable expedition was the publication of the book "History of the Great Steppe" on the presentation of the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
"Astana Expo-2017" with. Bolebayeva informed the forum participants about the preparations for the exhibition.
Improved reporting of district inspectors to the population. the procedure of police reports for district inspectors improved .
Rudolph's image is the pinnacle of vocals for any tenor that many dream of. many people dream of such a role , the image of rudolph .
a. According to Baimenov, a few days ago the aid was offered to create a new platform in a wide context.
According to him, thanks to the arrival of the social train, the public association of the city first learned a new list of necessary information.
including leading universities of academic and craft science.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister, also during the meeting of the intergovernmental board, Kazakhstan agreed to reduce taxes from Uzbekistan, in particular, on meat products and confectionery.
today in Kazakhstan, the population determines demand, and this will be an impetus for production.
these innovations must be adopted by the legislature. "
The law expanded the list of entities obliged to provide information, systematized and expanded the types of information, the methods of their submission, and introduced the practice of annual open reports of heads of state bodies.
the maturity period is 19 years, including a 5-year grace period.
During 4 days from March 17 to 20, project participants - students of higher and secondary special educational institutions will be trained in business skills under the guidance of business coaches and successful entrepreneurs.
the competition will be held at Semey Business College.
the idea of the Kazakh leader was translated into the format of the Eurasian Economic Union.
some of our furniture is exported to Russia.
In addition, Pavlodar JSC is nearing completion of work on the investment project "Construction of a greenhouse complex in Pavlodar city" totaling 1.9 billion tenge.
It is important to develop and commit to an international instrument prohibiting the use of scientific discoveries to create new types of weapons of mass destruction.
participants agreed on the agenda.
It says that in Kazakhstan and Germany there are peasants who can contribute to the expansion of mutual partnership, the press service of the Majilis reports.
elections are held in a festive mood.
elections are held in accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Elections," which regulates the course of this process, "said Alan spence.
This became known during a meeting with the Director of the Department of Content and Post-Corps Use of JSC "National Company" Astana Expo-2017 "and the Executive Director of Baref.
this should be considered in an integrated system.
Based on marketing and economic research, it is necessary to advise companies to find new markets and develop a strategy to increase modern crisis competitiveness, "said the rector.
this will require a significant strengthening of the National Bank and the Government of Kazakhstan in the areas of structural economic reforms and monetary policy, "he said.
therefore, they promote Kazakhstan as a tourist destination, "he said.
Our experience shows that the revenues of such international financial centers directly depend on 3 important factors, such as people, infrastructure and capital, "he said.
according to the project, we will register the party list and hand over the relevant certificates to candidates for deputies of the Majilis.
Recall that Eurobuck is a non-profit organization.
We meet with the Secretary of State after signing the agreement on cooperation and partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union.	according to mr. hristea , the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation consists of more than 20 articles which reinforce the current level of relations between kazakhstan and the european union within the framework of economic , cultural , environmental , financial , investment , educational , and innovation collaboration .	0,71
The head of the region noted that today in our country, on behalf of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, large-scale work is being carried out to develop the industrial and innovative industry.	the head of the region noted that our country has conducted extensive work in the industrial-innovative sphere .	0,71
the doors of all sports facilities in the country should always be open to residents.	it is necessary to open sport facilities and palaces for all people .	0,71
the implementation of this important document will ensure the effectiveness and stability of the development of the NK group of white companies.
before the contest, we're a little worried.
The meeting discussed aspects of the state's energy policy in the face of instability in hydrocarbon prices in the world.
in addition, opportunities for foreign investment in the country were noted, the increase of which is due to the implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
According to the results of 2014-2015, it was not possible to achieve indicators of strategic plans.
invite people to participate in the action activists, future environmentalists - with. Conducting educational work for students of the Seyfullin Agricultural University and students in the middle and high schools of the city schools of the republican public organization "posadiderevo.kz," as well as reception on the sites of old equipment.
Kha is an example of the creation of a state on a global scale, "said V.Salakhov.
On behalf of all the organizing committees and on my own behalf, I thank you for taking part with respect in our forum this year.
this is more than 80 laws.
it is also planned to create a new institute - the institute of authorized representatives for ethics.
Nursultan Nazarbayev reiterated the need to ban all nuclear tests.
in the second round, participants in political discussions expressed their opinion on the topic: "Infrastructure, transport, logistics in modern conditions."
A bill on the ratification of an intergovernmental agreement with Macedonia on the promotion and mutual protection of investments was submitted for discussion by the deputies.
At the same time, the head of the region believes that the investment attraction agency created in the region, the center of competencies in environmental technologies and other development institutions will contribute to the improvement and implementation of bilateral relations.
Meiram Kudaibergenovich noted that Kazakhstan began the second five-year plan of industrialization for 2015-2019, which will become one of the signs of the related priorities of protecting the domestic market to increase equal access and competitiveness of producers to the markets of the EAEU countries.
The head of the public council under the President of Kazakhstan elected a happy deputy head of the public association "Kazakhstan Branch Union of Health Workers."
The forum participants discussed the successes and achievements of youth during the years of independence.
in five years, the manufacturing industry has grown 1.3 times, the chemical industry and the production of building materials - 1.7 times.
Of course, what you have demonstrated today in tomorrow will strengthen mutual trust and create good conditions for the further development of our friendly relations, "said V. Putin.
1792 people underwent a medical examination.
The armed forces of Kazakhstan are ready for joint action with partner States in peacekeeping.
the report also provides effective ways to develop Eurasian economic integration.
Saudi Arabia, like Kazakhstan, considers the formation of peace in its initiatives.
Also, the regional headquarters included representatives of active youth.
this sets itself confidence in investing in the production and processing of export-oriented livestock products for foreign investors.
ratification of the agreement will contribute to the cessation of illegal migration, "said Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the partnership, short-term educational programs should undergo a scientific internship, send pedagogical and medical workers to Israel for master classes and seminars.
The electronic system of government will monitor the living conditions of citizens and comply with all requirements so that citizens can confirm the work done.
A.Beissenbayev noted that Turkic-speaking activities play a serious role in promoting inter-parliamentary cooperation.
The head of the city noted the sustainable development of innovations and new technologies in Almaty.
We also know from you how to teach the population how to vote, "said the chairman of the CEC of Malaysia.
It should be noted that in the armed forces of Kazakhstan special attention is paid to the development of sports, including the occupation of military personnel by such sports as volleyball.
the state has done everything to develop your business and keep on your feet.
During construction work, more than 14 thousand people were employed, and during operation it is planned to create more than a thousand new jobs.
I will definitely go to the polls on March 20.
The initiative of early elections is connected with the legislative work done as part of the nation's plan, "he said.
its main task is to unite the Asian region in order to comply with security measures.
prices for most Kazakh goods, including raw materials, oil, metals and industrial products, fell.
Representatives of the women's community described their achievements and noted the positive impact of socio-economic policies.
It is planned to introduce 12 objects of processing enterprises in the amount of 73 billion tenge.
projects will be selected on the basis of open competitions between universities, research institutes and innovative companies, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhip.
According to him, a third of the allocated funds were transferred to the manufacturing industry.
this year, the National Commission on Family and Demographic Policy and Women was established.
Within the framework of the first five-year plan of industrialization, 32 projects were implemented, 2 thousand jobs were created.
as in the past century, peace must be fought with caution and perseverance in the twenty-first century.
there is an indicator of primary results.
deputies of the fifth convocation did an excellent job. i believe that the new composition should be more mobile in terms of the project implementation .
this is a very long trend.
candidate nominated by the head of state for the post of chairman of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Vladimir Zhumakanov - a skilled, educated, experienced leader.	as a result of the voting the members of the senate has approved the appointment of v. zhumakanov as the chairman of the national security committee .	0,71
According to him, today the number of active small and medium-sized enterprises is 40.7 thousand units.	nowadays the number of subjects in the field of small and medium enterprises has amounted to 40,700 units ,  n.nogayev has said .
comprehensive support from all sides was provided by my intentions for the deep modernization of Kazakhstan as a whole.
therefore, it is necessary to constantly work with errors on the basis of systematic analysis and a comprehensive discussion of the measures taken.
only thanks to your own power mobilization can you contribute to society and the country, "said Mr. Lavrienko.
this is an unforgivable situation. every day i get a summary of the non-payment of wages , the delay in payment of salaries .
we are currently in the process of producing 300x300 mm, 400x400 mm, 600x600 mm and 600x300 millimeters uneyed ceramic granite plates.
During EXPO-2017, guests of different categories, especially from countries of far and near abroad, show interest in acquaintance with Kazakh culture, primarily with its traditions.
in this regard, the chairman of the Polish Senate quoted Pope John Paul II that "part of your traditions is composed in a spirit of openness and solidarity, because Kazakhstan has long looked like a place where many traditions and cultures are intertwined."
The work of the centre will aim at promoting and preserving cultural diversity and interreligious dialogue in the Central Asian States on the basis of UNESCO experience, humanitarian aspects and sustainable cultural principles.
For the first time, this competition was held in 2013, according to the results of which the titles of 6 candidates were awarded, in 2014 - 7 candidates, in 2015 - 3 candidates.
at a press conference: Secretary General of the International Bureau of Exhibitions of Vicente Lossertales, Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Commissioner of expo 2017 rapil zhoshybayev, Commissioner of China at EXPO 2017 wang jinzhen, Commissioner of the French section at EXPO 2017 pascal loro.
this even increases the risk of a global war due to a possible failure of the electronic defense management system.
Of course, we do not succeed, but we always try to find time to listen to the message of the head of state to the people. it is very important that despite the global crisis , the state found it possible to raise wages by almost a third .
As part of the Employment Roadmap 2020, microcredit programs received 1.6 704 billion tenge, an additional 837 jobs were created.
According to him, if the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan receives an updated composition, it should immediately begin anti-crisis measures.
thereby providing the population with quality medical care.
The sides discussed cooperation of bilateral relations and preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
The document calls on world parliamentarians to strengthen legal resistance to international terrorism and maximize the potential of parliamentary diplomacy in the international fight against terrorism.
Addressing the audience, the head of state noted that the republic will spend the coming year as part of the 25th anniversary of its independence.
So, to date, 37 joint ventures with Switzerland and 91 enterprises working with foreign capital have been registered in Almaty.
esco is an investment company that invests in energy-saving measures, implements them, and also returns funds invested by saving energy resources over a long period of time through an energy service contract.
Asylbek Zheenbekov highly appreciated the level of Kazakh-Kyrgyz inter-parliamentary relations and expressed gratitude for the support of his intention to join Kyrgyzstan.
The project for the construction of cargo transit 500 kv north-east-south has social significance.
as a result, you can reduce the volume of imports.
these are not only means, but also spiritual support.
And for other families, the Department of Employment and Social Programs of the North Kazakhstan Region conducts relevant work and regulates documentation.
In order to implement the 97th step of the National Plan, the law "On Self-Regulation" began to operate on May 15 of this year.
the list of medicines included in the stock will be constantly updated. in forming the formulary the best international practices were used , " deputy minister said .
During the meeting, the public consent of the Kazakh model and inter-ethnic unity were presented.
- Until January 29, 2016, 5 people were registered for self-nomination, of which 1 - regional, 4 - district maslikhat.
Also during the visit, a meeting of the President of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov and the akim of the region Archimedes Mukhambetov took place.
In addition, the President of Egypt, during a bilateral meeting with the head of state, expressed gratitude to the head of state for the comprehensive discussion and invitation on an official visit to our country, creating such an opportunity.
he noted that the most important thing is to stabilize the financial sector, save and optimize budget money as much as possible.
R. Zhoshybayev thanked the Australian side for supporting the initiative to join the world trade organization and holding the Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital.
and military units dismantle and disassemble buildings, as well as clean up the territory and put them into operation.
now we need only champions and prize-winners who will receive this help, "says E. Kanagatov.
the number of women in our society is growing every year.
A meeting with Mayor of Bauyrzhan Baybek is planned in Almaty, the Austrian delegation will present the development plan of the city.
Guests intend to contribute to the development of agriculture, energy and high technology.
therefore, no one should forget it.
Berdybek Saparbayev met with Robert in the act and noted that, despite the economic difficulties in the world, not a single worker in the enterprise was reduced, there were no problems with paying wages.
This year we became famous for the indigenous people.
Within the framework of the festival, a demonstration of culinary products, an exhibition of creative works by students will be organized.
it is planned to announce the competition by the summer, draw conclusions, hold a forum and draw conclusions on the spot.
The relationship between the UN and Kazakhstan has become an effective work in the field of promoting gender policy and giving women competence. the collaboration with the authorities of kazakhstan and the undp in the field of gender equality and women 's empowerment policy was very fruitful .
at the international economic forum in Baku, experts and economists noted the absence of a second state with a huge reserve and potential for dynamic development.
To receive additional services, attract sponsorship funds, you will be given the opportunity to replenish the budget fund, "he said.
To date, 153 companies are located in the zone, of which 64 operate in Aea, 47 operate on the principle of economy, 42 rent institutions in Almaty.
Each section contains the appropriate steps.
I am sure that the plant will become competitive.
the plan identifies seven possible new strategic directions for the development of the state city.
that is, he is interested in processing, as well as in creating new jobs in order to improve the condition of the rural population, of course, they not only look at the Kazakh market, but also look at the Chinese and Far Eastern markets.
Unfortunately, only 38% of precinct points can freely get to our base, "the minister said.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister, as part of the implementation of the reforms, it is planned to attract world-famous transnational industrial companies to TCM.
The signed agreements covered about 1.9 thousand large enterprises (83% of the total indicator), more than 103.9 thousand medium and small enterprises (59% of the total indicator), the report said.
Intensify international efforts to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east.
To date, there are 4 projects that contribute to the formation and development of the company.	one of them is the field  shalkiya " in kyzylorda region that refers to the 7 largest lead-zinc deposits .
According to K. Mayshev, as part of the modernization, it is planned to double the indicator.
then oil prices rose and dynamically developed.
We need to achieve a 25% reduction in the energy intensity of IZHS by 2020 and by 50% by the middle of the century.
candidates are now actively nominated.
tell me about yourself.
how to avoid this?
Accept the best wishes for health, happiness, tranquillity and well-being.
in this regard, he also noted the possibility of reducing membership revenues.
The first meetings were held at which the chairpersons were elected and the workplans for the current year were approved.	the information can be accepted by mail , mia internet resources ,  - the speaker said .
The opening ceremony of the hermitage days was attended by the Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan lion Muhammadiul, as well as deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, famous statesmen and public figures, representatives of the intelligentsia.
Governor of the North Kazakhstan region e. Sultanov and the president "ktj" uk "a. Mom visited other enterprises, got acquainted with the exhibition of components, spare parts, installations and units for railway transport.
In addition, the Governor's Office signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation with Kazakhstan Space Visit LLP and Almaty Information Systems Center, Almaty Development Center LLP.
and in the capital there is a representative office of Tatarstan.
According to the speaker, portfolio management goes through a rigorous evaluation system.
According to the head of the local police service, police colonel Dulat Kazakbaev, the crime rate in the region is declining.
if now there are 35 such countries, then in a year or two there will be up to 54.	institute of investment ombudsman , government regional councils attracting investors were created .	0,71
It should be noted that the first specialized center for population services for registration of motor vehicles appeared in Karaganda, after which specialized CSPs began to work in Almaty, the capital, the cities of whitewash and scales.	it should be recalled that the first specialized public service centre on registration of motor vehicles appeared in karaganda , then in almaty , astana , aktau and taraz cities .	0,71
I cannot name the exact number of companies, but since Kazakhstan is one of the trading partners in central Asia, I can confidently say that many companies come to the exhibition, and many tourists from China come to see the exhibition. kazakhstan is one of our main trading partners in central asia , i can confidently say that a large number of companies will participate in the exhibition .
Today, in economic terms, they remain beyond integrated environmental measures, the global initiative on climate change is very important, but do not forget about other problems. today , in the pursuit of economic benefits , we don 't pay enough attention to the complex environmental issues to combat climate change .
On the Kazakh side, Attorney General Askhat Daulbayev, on the Iranian side, the Minister of Justice signed an independent pur-muhammadi spiritual agreement.
this is a symbol of the fact that a grotesque trend occurs, and it becomes negative.
At the same time, in our strategy of strengthening the identity and unity of the nation at a new stage of the creation of the state there is a fundamentally important moment.
the great steppe is the umbilical blood of the nation, the blood of our ancestors and deserts.
According to employees of the Department of State Revenue in the city of Astana, he took advantage of the right to legalize his funds
According to the akimat, from 2016 to 2020, it is planned to build and commission more than 2,104 thousand square meters of multi-storey housing in South Kazakhstan region.
Senate deputies supported and voted for the candidacy of each judge.
for the first time in the history of the Winter Universiade they will be placed in an athletic estate.
I am glad to see that work has been done in Kyzylorda region, projects that are planned to be implemented. i am happy that some large-scale work is carried out in kyzylorda region .
At the same time, the rate of non-communicable diseases in our country is growing, as in other countries of the world.
the obligation of public authorities to address the issues raised at those meetings meant that the institution was effective.
Recall that in 2015 the council was created on the basis of the Belarusian-Kazakh-Russian business dialogue on the initiative of the leading countries of the Union of Business Community.
It is necessary to develop a new method corresponding to the time test, "said the Azerbaijani expert.
It is worth noting that this document will allow Kazakhstani producers and agricultural producers to export goods on the principle of "one window" through the Chamber of Foreign Trade of Kazakhstan.
according to the memorandum, uber works only with partners (legal entities and individual entrepreneurs) registered as business entities.
On January 17, 2014, in the Address of the Head of State, it was noted that a dual entity should be created in Kazakhstan.
therefore, it is necessary to include a mobilization effect and influence the mood of society.
Kazakhstan will make every effort to further develop our integration association and during its chairmanship will actively work to deepen ties with the Shanghai cooperation organization.
According to him, the strongest filmmakers of Kazakhstan and Russia participated in the preparation of the film.
In addition, in accordance with the new charter, the obligations of members of the national Olympic Committee have been expanded.
we must take care of ourselves, no one blows us up.
In this regard, local representatives are ready to provide semicircular assistance, provide land and carry out infrastructure.
deposits of the population increased by 96 billion tenge, "he said.
they work in the accounting committee - the accounting committee, audit commissions of the regions, the financial control and internal audit service.
bogatyr-coal is one of the city-forming enterprises, where 6.5 thousand workers work today.
monitoring not only the current moment, but also the dynamics of these indicators.
The further development of Eurasian integration was developed by the traditions of consistent and multilateral integration.
According to the Governor of the region, it is necessary to start the construction of special clinics.
because there were a lot of talented, educated girls.
The head of state noted that high prices for oil, gas and other natural resources remain at the level of last day.
but there is no alternative to them.
firstly, you need to know which profession is in great demand in the market.
We allocate 98% of the funds allocated from the budget to sports, and 2% to sports.
Work on the film was carried out in Kazakhstan and Russia: the main part took place in the Almaty and Almaty regions, the rest was shot in the capital, Karaganda, Moscow and St. Petersburg.
The parties noted that the company's participation in the field of green economy will bring to a new stage the unity of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Belgium.
During the summer working period, 2639 students, pupils of rural and unemployed houses of youth and youth worked.
The driving force of the Kazakh economy will be sectors of the economy within the framework of innovative industrialization. in this regard , the government has developed the action plan in case of lower oil prices - 30 / 20 dollars per barrel , " president said .
a process where globalization is irreversible.
He expressed confidence that the thoughts of the deputies of both sides will come out of one place and strengthen relations between the countries through inter-parliamentary cooperation.
the sides discussed topical issues of development of bilateral relations in all spheres.
on the creation of a social health insurance fund by a non-profit joint-stock company.
This amount is distributed among the members of the associations as part of their obligation to return funds received from the association for sowing and harvesting campaigns.
we agree with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, who is doing a lot to strengthen ties between fraternal countries, "the President of Tatarstan emphasized.
in general, preparations for the electoral process take place calmly and evenly.	as the expert believes , kazakhstan has created equal conditions for all candidates .	0,72
Following the meeting, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Lithuania.	at the end of the talks , a memorandum of mutual understating and cooperation between kazakh and lithuanian economy ministries was signed .	0,72
The head of the South Czech region familiarized the guest with economic development, and also expressed interest in establishing cooperation with Kazakhstan for the implementation of mutually beneficial business projects.	he spoke about the long-term strategy of modernization of kazakhstan on the basis of  nurly zhol " program and the national plan " 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms , " preparing for an international specialized exhibition " expo-2017 " in astana .
to do this, our youth must strictly continue our independent path, protect our eyes, maintain unity, friendship and tranquillity in the country.
the purpose of this competition is to strengthen international military cooperation, increase the prestige of military service and military-professional activities of medical specialists.
"Kazakhstan 2021: unit. stability. creation. "
block in - the main employee.
and if it is rooted in the power structure, including in the army, which is the pillar of nation-building, then it is inappropriate to talk about the extent of its consequences.
for a meeting dedicated to Cosmonaut Day, General s.s. students of the school "Zhas Ulan" named after Nurmagambetov, academician of the city of Industrial and Economic College.
he noted that the most important thing is to combine trade and economic ties.
Mayor of Almaty b.baybek participated in the Asia-Pacific Forum on Sustainable Development.
I did not want to make money on this, I wanted to help Kazakhstani girls, "said Dr. pernebayev.
this was facilitated by the fruitful legislative work of the parliament of the republic.
I believe that the national bank in the current conditions pursues the right policy.
It is worth noting that the conference will discuss issues in which the experience of developing leadership qualities in domestic science of the family, school and other social institutions, as well as the results of research work of the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan will be studied.
Churchill in one word says that the giants take time, and aliens come to their place.
separate relations in Asia, there family relations, another religion, another opportunity, so all countries need to respect each other's culture, literature, traditions.
early elections will strengthen public agreement and unite the people in achieving the goal, "said a member of the politburo of the CPC Central Committee, a member of the Majilis of the fifth convocation parliament.
Guests of the special event were informed at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev about the promotion of the 70th session of the UN in 2017-2018 and the holding of the expo 2017.
Kazakhstan equipment companies have interest.
A.Aamaldinov noted the relevance of promoting advanced Japanese technologies and experience of mutually beneficial projects in the above areas.
It should be noted that in order to own an electronic ticket, buyers on the tickets.expo2017astana.com website pay through bank cards.
According to the results of last year, the average per capita income in the capital amounted to 3.7 million tenge.
Also, combining meetings and elections of maslikhats at all levels will save budget funds.
For the period from June 2014 to March 2016, 109 objects are subject to privatization.
in addition, the parties signed memoranda on direct supplies of products to the city.
do not agree on specific deadlines through diplomatic channels, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The Supreme Judicial Council works in its apparatus as an autonomous structure and conducts work on the selection of quality personnel.	elbasy noted that kazakhstan has already implemented the new specialized chamber of the supreme court , and the international council of the supreme court , which included representatives of different countries .	0,72
at the same time, it was noted that the requirements for builders should include co-financing, the availability of places and design estimates, the approved price for the implementation of the work.	it was noted that the requirements for developers should include co-financing , the availability of land and design and estimate documentation , as well as a fixed sale price .	0,72
The Chairman of the Majilis thanked the deputy corps, members of parliamentary factions, the deputy group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the staff for the work done for the benefit of the country.	in 2015 , there were more than a thousand meetings of working groups , more than three hundred meetings of committees , 3 joint sessions , 38 plenary sessions of the majilis , 5 government meetings .	0,72
it's not just a conference.	it is not only the conference .	0,72
K.Masim and V.Hoyer noted the huge potential for the development of mutually beneficial partnerships and identified priority areas for future cooperation.	k. massimov and w.hoyer noted the significant potential to develop mutually beneficial partnerships and identified priority areas for future cooperation .	0,72
There are also few women in ministries and diplomatic corps, "said I. Onkievich.
According to Hungarian entrepreneurs, young power engineers involved in the construction of a solar power plant will not have problems connecting it in the future.
the presidents of the two countries signed an agreement on cooperation in this area.
It is planned to transport 40 tons of sausage workshops and two milk processing farms with a capacity of 90 tons of milk from warm meat in the region, "the akim said.
according to him, the withdrawal of citizenship can aggravate the negative consequences.
members of the commission conducted a comprehensive analysis of the work of these central and local state bodies.
The meeting was attended by Head of the Secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Administration of the President of Kazakhstan Nazip Shanai, Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Muratali Kalmurats and members of the Council.
firstly, high-quality training is carried out and all the conditions for this are created.
he had enough time to get acquainted with all the conditions of the current elections, to find out which parties nominate candidates.
the third industry is agriculture.
the Lithuanian side expressed its readiness to take part in the project for the development of the trans-Caspian route.
Work is underway to receive loans from the fund of financial support for agriculture for 5.5 million tenge and receive a state grant for 3.0 million tenge.
Bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that a favorable investment climate is being formed in the republic and urged businessmen to actively develop the Kazakh market.
The Head of Government noted that Kazakhstan highly appreciates the partnership with the pair ESCAP and subregional department in Almaty, and also noted the multilateral cooperation and promotion of Kazakhstan's initiatives.
at the same time, it is forbidden to attract money from equity holders for the construction of the building in other ways not provided for by the bill, "he said.
At the same time, we believe that through the Kazakhstan segment of social networks, citizens will exercise constitutional rights to receive and disseminate information, "said L. Suleimen.
141 unproductive self-employed (plan of the year 186 people); 7008 people were employed in the vacancy (3818 people plan of the year).
Lyudmila thanked the activists of the center with letters of thanks and thanked them for their work.
A number of aef-2016 sessions are devoted to the development of the financial and banking sector, monetary policy and the return of the capital control regime.
During the meeting he expressed gratitude to athletes for achieved high achievements and noted that in the region special attention is paid to development of sports and creation of favorable conditions for athletes.
According to V. Foos, according to the law on the right to nominate candidates for deputies of the Majilis, they belong to political parties elected by party lists, and the right to nominate candidates for deputies of the Majilis is elected by the assembly and assemblies.
now we have a great responsibility, we will be defenders of our country.
In addition, in the period from 2016 to 2020, we receive additional funds at the expense of the national operator Kaztransgaz for gasification of the country.
Note that the second stage of the Steppe Golden Eagle 2016 peacekeeping exercise is planned to be held in the UK.
in the Ministry of Public Service Affairs, by decision of the President, a policy of combating corruption has been created, new institutions have been introduced to investigate corruption, etc.
everything is clearly spelled out there.
Therefore, within our limit, we provide more funds for repair work and maintenance of the road - we made such an offer to the Ministry of Finance, "the minister said.
complex provides an object with internal telephone communication, a security system, video surveillance, a system for tracking the exchange of people or cargo, control availability and loudspeaker communication for transmitting voice commands or special alarms.
It should be noted that alstom is the largest French engineering company, one of the largest in the world for the production of an energy plant and railway transport.
now we need knowledge of a different nature.
during the meeting, the aksakal spoke about his participation in the bloody battle of Stalingrad and Kursk.
therefore, it was named.
It is important to see that the practical implementation of the National Plan takes place in full compliance with the changing global environment, taking into account the new opportunities and possible risks of world development.
its main task is to ensure the functioning of the single market within the framework of the freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and labor.
According to the observer, concrete concepts will be made early, but now Kazakhstan is constructively moving to improve its electoral system.
summing up the results of the speech of the Kabibullah Jakupas, he noted that during the chairmanship of Kazakhstan it was once again proved that the main areas of cooperation have been strengthened and are an important political platform for multilateral cooperation of the CIS.
all conditions are created for people with disabilities.
the judge's chairman begins monitoring without noticing any comments, and it indicates that the process did not start on time, and since then the reason has been revealed, "he said.
I want to wish the people all the best, and in the new year 2016 all our noble dreams will be fulfilled. " Kudaibergen wished.
I think that this will allow developing cooperation between the two countries in such areas as trade and sports. historically kazakhstan and greece enjoy great relations .
now it will be released on the scales.
construction and installation works were completed in the organizer's office.
According to the annual tradition, the grand opening of the exhibition was opened by dances of the Kazakh people, and a video film about Kazakhstan was also shown.
This will solve the problems of citizens without bringing them to the end.
More than 700 delegations from 28 countries are expected to attend the forum.
despite the complexity of the reorganization, there was no deterioration in the provision of public services, and the work of structural units was not stopped for a single day.
Are Internet sites and social media the media?
Karim Massimov expressed hope for the continuation of work aimed at the progressive deepening of mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation, noting that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of economic relations with Kyrgyzstan.
To date, competitive work is being completed to prepare a master plan for the development of forestry.
The climatic conditions of the capital allow you to create ice towns, skating rinks and various hills.
I think that this is legal and understandable, "said E. Sairov.
the parties have long-standing experience of long-term strategic partnership and cooperation and intend to strengthen cooperation in the field of nuclear industry and energy.
during this time, every citizen must choose his or her own decision and choose a person who can express his or her opinion in power.
The New Year is a special holiday that we all look forward to.
The head of state noted that this year the implementation of five institutional reforms began, one of the areas of which is the formation of a legal state.
A new institution is being established to provide an enabling legal, economic and social environment for arbitration activities in Kazakhstan.
letters of thanks were presented to the winners.
many veterans received apartments.
in the Singapore Parliament, the Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan and the Chairman of the Singapore Parliament exchanged views on topical issues of cooperation between the two countries.
such support was only for the champions of the Olympic Games.
In addition, the head of the region raised the issue of improvement of the city of Schuchinsk.
to do this, a mechanism for flexible changes in interest rates should be fully used.
As the Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Kalmukhanbet Kassymov reported, the document is aimed at regulating legal relations related to the organization, holding of sports and mass, cultural and entertainment and other events.
The broad tone noted the usual warm relations between the two countries, which were strengthened through traditional personal ties between the President of Kazakhstan and the leadership of Singapore.
Today, the foundation of the first president of Kazakhstan "Nazarbayev Center" - the leader of the nation - for the first time demonstrated the chamber choir of the Smolny Cathedral among pupils and children with disabilities, as well as in front of students of the boarding school.
now compensation depends on the employer.
great potential in the processing industry.
It is important to see that the practical implementation of the National Plan takes place in full compliance with the changing global environment, taking into account the new opportunities and possible risks of world development.
1st place was taken by a teacher of English at Industrial and Technical College No. 1.
and we take furniture material from China, Russia and Austria.
Before the 25th anniversary of independence, Kazakhstan held presidential elections, and now holds elections of deputies, "said the silk halyuk.
engineers, those who study international relations, return to their countries and work in Afghanistan, "he said.
we worked hard within the framework of the concept and saw the prospect of creating ahko.	today there is no developed country without a full capital market ,  - said s. perapechka .
we cannot succeed if not all countries make efforts, "the head of state said.
they covered various industries.
The scientific and expert group organized visiting extended meetings in the region, meetings with representatives of the round table and garden. as of 1q , 2016 the region held more than 200 public meetings attended by more than 5000 people .
the mechanism of interregional cooperation developed by us has already yielded a positive result. the mechanism of inter-regional cooperation is working and showing positive results .
they are aimed at deepening the process of economic integration in the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
together with his brother Timothy, he won three gold at the World Championships, overcoming distances of 200 m, 500 m and 1000 m among youth.
for the Astana economic forward, this format is becoming new.
farmers can also obtain loans through credit partnerships and microfinance organizations.
kha farmers can also obtain loans through credit partnerships and microfinance organizations.
According to him, for a number of products there is an import need.
domestic flights are operated by 6 Kazakhstani airlines in 42 directions.
the new law on public service also applies to law enforcement agencies.
in the annals of each country, fateful events take place, which became the beginning of its new history. nowadays it becomes a habit to share our lives for the periods before and after independence .
transparency, accountability and efficiency of state bodies increase with the development of the open government of Kazakhstan. "
The President also noted that raising taxes is not a way out of the crisis.
the purpose of the study is to determine the level of efficiency of sites, the availability of the necessary information for citizens and provide proposals for the development of resources.
The Chairman of the Accounting Committee also reported on the main results of the audit commissions of Astana and Almaty, as well as the regions for 2015.
This is the fruit of reckless labor, common sense of the head of our country! "- said akim of the region.
The signed document provides for a partnership between the world's largest uranium producer and a leading conversion provider to form a joint presentation for the global uranium market in the form of uf6 hexafluoride, which is a raw material for enrichment in the nuclear fuel cycle.
this proposal was approved at a meeting of the National Commission for Modernization under the President of Kazakhstan.
The government is working with more than 1000 regulatory acts, "said the professor.
The highest ratings of international experts were given to strengthening the preventive direction of medicine, improving the sanitary and epidemiological service in organizations, managing and financing medical care.
The head of the region presented the veteran with a large television and a basket of gifts, congratulated him on the New Year, wished him good health and peace to our country.
Also, Almaty youth held a flash mob for Defender of the Fatherland Day.
It should be noted that such special security barriers are actively used in the armed forces of Israel and the Russian Federation.
first, it was important to attract private investment with a focus on transnational corporations.
the country must be a constitutional guarantee.
As the UN Assistant Secretary General noted, Kazakhstan will continue to support the professional state apparatus, as in other countries.
this is a very important question at a time when world powers are striving to dominate the world every year, surrounding many countries with a fiery and bloody war.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstanis do not remember that they live on tenge.
Since much depends on the deputies of parliament, in the current situation it is better to update the composition.
the parties agreed to exchange experience in the field of safety during the competition.
We see that in recent years, the interest of foreign investors in the manufacturing industry has been growing.
these changes were very difficult and useful.
In addition, the parties expressed hope for the successful holding of the summit, as well as that the planned decisions would be effective.
for example, last year we identified a number of violations in the field of small and medium-sized businesses regarding advertising.
in particular, the first stage - testing, the second stage - assessment of personal qualities, the third stage - interview.
school graduates, without gaining a single or several points from a low threshold level, enter foreign universities for a fee, which means they invest in higher education in other countries.
the fundamental reforms that we are implementing, and everything that we are doing is being done for you, for the future.
To eradicate the ideas of terrorism, it is very important to work in a unified manner, to carry out large-scale work of political figures, religious leaders, leaders of public opinion, in the educational direction, "the head of state noted in his message.
During the convocation, 484 deputy requests were made public, more than 120 events were held by the standing committees of the upper house.
he recalled that this initiative is important for the organization's plan to free itself from nuclear weapons, to achieve peace in the 100th anniversary.
the parties support the desire of the nuclear industry to introduce new technologies that do not use sensitive nuclear materials in places where it is technically possible, economically profitable.
The bill on amendments and additions to some legislative acts on the protection of the rights of children proposes the creation of a single republican data bank and children left without parental care who want to take up their families.
According to the deputy, the work of the parliament of the fifth convocation was done by a margin.
the conference discusses the best international experience and current trends in improving the public service, good governance, innovations in the training of public servants and research in the field of public administration.
According to the Executive Secretary, the reports of the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova, Deputy Prime Minister Dariga Nazarbayeva showed that there are concrete visions and goals that we can achieve.
in general, the plan to create fattening complexes per mic was completed by 126.9%.
I dedicate my victory to you people.
and gulshara, summing up the 20th anniversary of kha, noted the strengthening of interethnic peace in the country this year.
I thought about how to move on, how to build relationships with children, because everyone is responsible for their fate.
today it is the largest medical center in the region, which provides specialized and high-tech assistance to children.
the exhibition will give an impetus to diversifying the economy and attracting a system of technological modernization of production facilities, as well as the capacity of the country's scientific base.
7.6 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for the construction of 50 thousand square meters of credit and rental housing through the Baiterek development of the region.
The Iranian side called on the business group of Kazakhstan to actively participate in the joint implementation of a number of new projects in the Iranian market.
a lot of work has been done.
in this regard, Kazakhstan has become an example of unity and unity for the whole world.
the fund also turned out to be a guarantor and ensured a shortage.
that is, we, using energy-saving lamps, pay less for the use of energy, as well as contribute to low greenhouse gas emissions to the environment.
In addition, on a systematic basis, work is underway to monitor the implementation of the Integrated Plan for Attracting City Investment.
wherein there is no regulated relationship between the service provider and the service recipient.
One of the biggest questions is the issue of water inflow from raw darya. it 's a big issue of the syr darya river board .
it is streamlined for scheduled replacement of obsolete and worn-out equipment. it is planned to design and manufacture devices with greater depth setting and lighthouse equipment , lighted bank mark , " - the statement reads .
According to him, the ratification of the agreement will allow to combat illegal migration.
Over the past five years, 164 projects have been implemented in the region.
In addition, as it became known at a press conference, the manufacturing industry in the country grew by 0.2% and showed good performance.
One of the main goals of this exhibition is the activation of the military-industrial complex of Kazakhstan.
38 applications for legalization of property worth 1044.4 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
symphony orchestra of the orchestra of Kazakh folk instruments and the capital's state academic philharmonic society. Thanks to the works and choreographic productions performed by the creative team of the Kazakh National University of Arts "inspiration" and musical numbers in the spirit of patriotism, Kazakhstanis were widely reflected in the main values ​ ​ of the caster - unity of the people, public harmony, peace and stability, traditions, national idea "m gilik el."
Representatives of local executive bodies who took part in the meeting received comprehensive information on issues related to the improvement and implementation of the regulatory framework of state ethnopolitical policy.
agriculture, construction, architecture, oil production, energy, aviation, military technology and transport.
the resuscitation and anesthesiology department was expanded by 6 beds and a room for 4 beds was opened after neurosurgical operations, equipped with modern equipment.
If we consider the first results of the police, we can safely say that the law enforcement capacity of the police is not reduced. in general , the individual performance significantly improved due to the release from some functions .
The participants of the meeting discussed the problems of the system and the barriers that are encountered following the results of a comprehensive examination of the department with the participation of eeo experts. the participants of the meeting discussed the outcomes of the comprehensive analysis of the industry , the barriers and systemic issues carried out by the department with the participation of experts of the eaeu .
Following the meeting, an agreement was signed on Poland's participation in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Speaking about the people, Kazakhstan is a fraternal state promoting peaceful life, along with a rich cultural heritage.	it 's no secret that all reforms are long-term and productive only due to correct development of social policy 's items ,  ye.abdullayev has said .
an agreement on international combined transport of goods is currently being discussed under the auspices of the Turkic Council, the aim of which is to increase the efficiency of the combined version of the transport of goods through the Caspian Sea and increase transit in the Sino-European direction.
In 2015, 4 new plants were commissioned for a total of $113 million.
it is important that every Kazakhstani knows the history and culture of the Kazakh khanate.
Candidates for deputies of the Majilis from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan pay an election fee. the candidates nominated from the apk will hold the election campaign at their own expense .
in general, the purpose of the competition is to improve the quality of products, works and services produced in the country, improve the quality and competitiveness of the Kazakh market.
According to the minister, up to 4,000 forest-steppe fires occur annually in the country, covering about 180 thousand districts, the damage exceeds 230 million tenge.
Compliance by States with legal norms and their international obligations.
Kazakhstan's reforms are accepted with great interest in Ukraine, including the possibility of applying the Kazakh experience in our country.
if they think that some circumstances are not taken into account by their parties, they can come to court and consider their processes, as well as give them an audio recording of the protocol, "he said.
he also noted that it is difficult and opaque to determine the winner of the competition.
As part of the execution of Nazarbayev's order, construction work will be completed this year.
thus, the removal of barriers to trade, transit transport and the development of reliable transport and logistics infrastructure.
a decade - will increase the literacy of the population about proper and rational nutrition, will contribute to the formation of a nutritional culture among students, and improve health indicators.
According to him, the unification of elections will give impetus to the branches of state power.
In 2015, the oil service market of Kazakhstan is estimated at $7 billion. the oilfield services market has simple categories , which do not require so much technology .
According to him, a register of goods subject to appropriate labeling will also be compiled.
It is of great importance for holding an international forum in 2016, "said E. Boev.
Holding meetings of deputies and early elections to maslikhats at all levels is the right decision, since many laws have been adopted. the initiative of snap elections of the deputies in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels is the right decision because a lot of laws were adopted .
in addition, in order to ensure transport accessibility, it is planned to establish convenient and constantly operating air links between the capital and the world's leading financial centers.
Due to the unstable economic competition that is happening in the world, 2016 is becoming difficult, and we have to work in basic conditions.	earlier , nursultan nazarbayev noted that kazakhstan attaches great importance to the eurasian economic union .	0,72
During the event, prospects for the development of kumysk production, horse breeding, breeding milk according to the Kazakh national method are discussed.	the forum deals with the development of horse breeding , industrial production of kumiss , topical issues of production , processing , storage , transportation , sale and consumption of other products of horse breeding .	0,72
Two decades ago, partnerships began with the country team of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the UN.	two decades ago , kazakhstan began partnership relations with the undp country team .	0,72
implementation of such important projects and programs as "Nұr zhol," "Business Roadmap," "Employment Roadmap."
what our people wished each other on this day will be fulfilled.
According to the expert, the evolution of opinions is interesting. Nazarbayev on the security and stability of the post-Soviet space in 1992-94.
participants of the Eurasian Media Forum are always met on the land of Kazakhstan. i think that the eurasian media forum has become one of the leading dialogue platforms .
During the meeting with the team of sturgeon fish breeding plants in the area of ​ ​ Atyrau, the deputies discussed changes and additions to the budget of the republic for 2016-2018, as well as discussed topical issues of the development of fisheries.
secondly, the realization of the completion of favourable external conditions leading to economic growth.
in accordance with the provisions of the protocol, the parties are obliged to cooperate in the interests of protecting the information space from destructive effects, to interact on the grounds of crimes committed using information technology and qualified by national legislation as crimes against the basis of the constitutional system and the security of the State, peace and security of mankind, and to cooperate in the field of information technology.
To maintain stability on the market path, including in the oil industry, we hold meetings and conclude relevant memoranda with the leaders of entrepreneurs, "the Governor of the region said.
According to the People's Artist of Kazakhstan, people who can conquer high peaks can clearly express their opinion when forming society and participating in elections.
every year a large militia of wooden products and furniture are brought to Kazakhstan.
they have good educational indicators, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in the capital on the 1st floor of the Transport Towers building, an investment service center has been created that advises investors on obtaining public service.
over the past three years, a lot has been done in the field of subsoil users. over the past three years , the agency has done a lot in subsoil use .
G. Abdykalikova noted that Kazakhstan faced severe manifestations of the global economic crisis and we should not forget that the crisis is a big opportunity.
K.lagard expressed confidence that the regional conference, in which the heads of the economic bloc of governments of a number of states will take part for the first time, will be successful.
Therefore, we expect that projects for the production of sanitary products and ceramic tiles will be interesting, "said E. Muratov.
irrigation of meat, milk, livestock, sheep, horses, pastures.
applied research, in particular the control of space debris and asteroids, is also given great attention.
thus, the traditional culture of the Kazakh people will become an image project aimed at forming a positive image of Kazakhstan and increasing the tourist attractiveness of the country.
Your work in the field of sports causes special attention and a sense of respect, "the Minister of Sports of Senegal shared his opinion.
In general, 19 projects will be implemented in the field of agriculture together with Chinese companies.
As Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov noted during the 12th international forum on public procurement, the exchange of experience and thoughts between the countries will contribute to the development of the public procurement system.
soprano galina Cheplakova for the first time will play the part in the role of a beautiful, gentle, gentle musical.
it is clear that my profession of economist, program developers used specific data.
adoption of the bill will not require additional financial costs from the republican budget, will not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences.
and during this period we must implement many activities.
and who is the deputy?
Today, the products of the Zerda-Ceramics plant are also sent to the construction work of EXPO-2017.
this involves the construction of an ultra-modern urban area and combines scientific, technical and cultural facilities.
We award the winners with prizes accordingly.
in the field of professional, scientific and technical activities, 82 billion dollars or 36.9% were attracted, in the field of wholesale and private trade - 19.3 billion dollars or 8.7%.
Kazakh diplomat Alimova congratulated on her appointment as Secretary General and handed a congratulatory letter to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Erlan Idrisov.
The center included scientists, public figures, representatives of non-governmental organizations.
funds allocated for the rehabilitation of small businesses provide great support to SMEs. a great help for smes have funds , allocated to finance the improvement of the support of small businesses .
these units were assembled on time at the "negative-yeast" training ground and completed their tasks.
in spite of any economic risks, the country will continue to support socially vulnerable segments of the population.
this doctrine is fundamentally different from other teachings in significance and has a special direction.
they play an important role in the economic and socio-political life of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, legislative activities were discussed within the framework of the implementation of five institutional reforms.
the next day on the "Renewal Day" the townspeople will go on a sabbath and restore city streets and parks.
As previously reported, the forum and the business council were attended by representatives of more than 200 Kazakhstani companies, and from the Iranian side - more than 700 companies.
we will develop a new structural economy, we have the results of the first five-year plan of industrialization.
Senators a. Kuzekov, M. Babenov and v.. Bobrov in the coming days will visit the Aktogai, Irtysh and Pavlodar regions.
According to the Governor's Office, on this day the national dishes of each ethnic group represented by ethnocultural associations were presented on the central streets of the city.
The Law and Judicial Reform Committee is considering a bill "On amending and supplementing a number of legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving civil legislation."
Thus, from January 1, 2016, the size of state social benefits for disability, on the occasion of loss of the breadwinner and on age will be increased by 7% due to a change in the subsistence minimum.
The fifth section - "the path to youth" - will contribute to the social protection and stimulation of the country's youth policy.
today it is also important for us to see all the challenges to the development of the world.
Currently, the company's production indicators are stable, "said M. Zhukenov.
Along with these projects, food supply will be dynamically developed, sewing working clothes, transport and other types of services, "said B. Zhailybayev.
all issues, including social and labor issues, will be comprehensively considered for each facility, "B.Sultanov said.
One of the main topics of the bureau of the astrophysical observatory is the study of the "role of unstable phenomena in the development of space objects."
today's situation in Kazakhstan has shown that this quote has become one of the main positions of the leader of the nation.
in turn, e. Moniz praised Kazakhstan's contribution to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and its important role in the Iranian negotiations
only for the preservation of peace and security between all States will peaceful dialogue and negotiations be promoted.
at the site of the business club, participants presented major investment projects in the field of food, mining, metallurgy and hospitality business in the region.
The main attention was paid to cooperation of Kazakhstan-Germany cooperation in raw materials, production and technological spheres.
It should be noted that today there are meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels.
some of our students studied abroad, engaged in winter sports.
according to the expert if there are no sounded measures, the will will be well visible only to the foreign states.
I think that the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan was chosen by the people who made the decision, differentiating rightness and skin. in my opinion , the majilis has been elected by the people .
by making them transparent and understandable, the administrative union and the financial burden for the competent authorities and business are reduced.
therefore, this order is mandatory and must be made within the framework of an identity.
due to the increase in the number of passengers, the number of shuttlebus minibuses will also be increased.
the new organization will bring together the heads of the youth of the region and facilitate their voluntary participation if necessary to assist society.
The heads of State noted the need to combat extremism and terrorism, ensure stability in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, and end the conflict in Yemen on the basis of political decisions.
persons seeking employment, unemployed persons and persons working under an employment contract.
therefore, all people should unite in the framework of the initiative of the leader of the nation.
During the meeting, the atarps exchanged views on issues on the international agenda, discussed the interaction of integration organizations in the Eurasian space.
Within the framework of the event, which took place in Kazakhstan, Honored Master of Sports of Kazakhstan, three-time champion of the Asian Games, Olympic champion Olga Rypakova came to the Network.
The Aerospace Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented to the chairman a free shaimagambet, as well as a number of Kazkosmos workers, "the statement said.
according to him, the corresponding indicator is included in the strategic plan of the ministry.
According to this indicator, our region ranks 5th in the republic.
At the same time, the international observer noted that the upcoming elections will contribute to the prosperity of the Kazakhstani people and the unification of peoples between the countries.
The project team together with Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region and other partners is ready to improve the project of the grand tour called Altai Altai.
This year, four health facilities were put into operation in the capital - the city children's infectious diseases hospital, an outpatient and polyclinic complex, BMK, and an attached oncologic dispensary building.
an agreement was also signed with the companies of the United Arab Emirates, Great Britain and Bulgaria on the purchase of products of the Kazakhstan cartridge plant.
awarded the Order of Honor, the badge "Best Civil Servant."
The electoral work of majilis deputies elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan does not coincide with the date of election of majilis deputies elected by party lists.
in a word, the northern Kazakhstanis actively participate in the elections and demonstrate high civic activity and political culture, "- said r.sym.
At the meeting, it was noted that the Senate in the fifth convocation held 127 meetings, at which 508 bills and more than 50 issues subject to special and personal consideration by the Senate were considered.
He explained in detail to the President of Cyprus the society and economy of Kazakhstan within the framework of the "bright path" and the "plan of the nation."
If we talk about the first achievements of Kazakhstan in the framework of this study, 13.7% of Kazakhstan show entrepreneurial activity.
K. Dzhakupova and a. Nurberdyev discussed the experience of legislative work of the parliaments of the two countries and paid attention to the further development of inter-parliamentary relations.
Now certificates and passports of residents of not only Aktobe, but also neighboring West Kazakhstan, Mangistau and Kostanay regions will be produced here.
In addition, this year in the industrial zone "tassai" it is planned to build a joint pharmaceutical plant with the Russians and launch plants of mdf panels for the production of LED lamps, orthopedic products, furniture.
In particular, it was noted that since the beginning of the election campaign, the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan has adopted a resolution on the appointment of elections of deputies of maslikhats, approval of calendar plans for elections to majilis and maslikhats, approval of forms of election documents, as well as some issues of activities of foreign states, international organizations and representatives of foreign parks.
The presidential decree in connection with the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved the concept of "25 years of unity and creation."
self-employed citizens in the territory of bus and railway stations.	as the director of astana  employment center " olzhas omarov told , the fair was held in the bus station .
Congratulations to all of you! "The head of state said.
According to him, work is underway to reduce administrative barriers, ensure transparency to reduce customs barriers, reduce trade operations, and create a regulatory legal framework.
Not a single application was received by the Department of State Revenue in Astana for legalization of property located outside Kazakhstan.
all operating industries are built at the advice and request of the International University Sports Federation.
special consortia will be created that combine the capabilities of science, production and the state.
During the meeting, the heads of the EAEU member states discussed various aspects of the union's activities and current work, including organizational and personnel issues.
the company plans to transfer both other subsidiaries to the uranium production region, create a trading company engaged in trade in products on the spot market, liquidate state-owned representative offices in China, Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as withdraw 18 non-core enterprises from the holding and complete the development of a feasibility study for the construction of a white-based Umz plant.
In the 21st century, the main factor in development is the continuous modernization of the rural life of society.
However, the review notes that poverty reduction and inequality are slowing down in many parts of the trend.
Recall that from this year the hospital will open a department of neuroinsult and rehabilitation.
The heads of State noted the need to form a large-scale anti-terrorist coalition in accordance with the charter, norms and principles of international law.
in turn a. Al-Hamei expressed interest in strengthening cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture and environmental protection.
you know how the situation will develop in our society, so social responsibility is a strategic value.
the festive show was attended by more than 2300 students and famous creative groups of the city.
In this regard, he expressed confidence that his country will take an active part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana next year.
Mayor of Almaty Bauyrzhan Baibek noted that in the future the implementation of the project for the construction of three kindergartens will play an important role in the socio-ecological development of the metropolis and expressed gratitude for their active position on the creation of social facilities.
It is worth noting that in our deputy address we proposed to reorganize the management of the BZhZ in accordance with the tasks of the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the head of state said this.
10% of solid household waste will be recycled and disposed of.
land is not sold or sold to foreigners.
the relevance of the forthcoming conference, and today terrorism and extremism are becoming a massive threat to the world community.	it will be attended by the parliamentarians from different countries , representatives of the world religions .	0,73
mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation between members of the EAEU, as well as with third states is possible only in conditions of universal and indivisible peace.
I think the decision of Kazakhstan, from year to year recognizable in all countries of the world, to organize such a large exhibition is correct.
in the upcoming elections, we must understand who is needed and who to vote for, "said M. Shibutov.
At the same time, there are many examples in foreign policy practice that contribute to future development.
from the very beginning, we take into account that our companies have minority shareholders so as not to violate their interests and rights.
According to the press service of the Senate, following the discussion, the committee recommended that the Senate of Parliament take part in the meeting of the constitutional council.
according to him, the main goal of the bill is the implementation of industry regulation; the establishment of new consumer protection mechanisms; improving the quality of state regulation in the field of regulation, protection of consumer rights, implementation of public participation of consumers.
According to President of the alstom Henri Poupard Lafarge, favorable conditions for investment have been created in Kazakhstan.
Recall, on March 20, meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels are held.
According to A.Nbetov, potential foreign partners can make changes to business legislation.
In February of this year, the public council, formed on a competitive basis, included representatives of non-profit organizations and public figures of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
today prices are much more fun.
these are important amendments.
picking was carried out according to the principle of excitation.
Iran and Pakistan are in observer status.
Within the framework of the trilingual education roadmap, 2,400 teachers are studying in Kazakhstan. much attention is paid to the training of teachers , it is a very important aspect .
the entrepreneur also noted that the current economic situation allows developing relevant services.
As a result, about 300 exhibits were collected.
Does the CEC know the first candidates?
In this regard, the expert noted that at the Astana Economic Forum, the head of state proposed creating a world road map on the green economy and the rational use of natural resources.
Parliament passed about 80 laws.
It is very important that the Easter of the Orthodox coincide with the holiday of unity of the people of Kazakhstan this year.
the holding of elections has a number of reasons.
The large-scale project, which is directly under the control of the head of state, will contribute to the opening of hundreds of jobs.
The introduction of a new railway route between Turkey and Georgia will give a new impetus to the revitalization of the trans-Caspian international transport route.
As part of the event, we will exchange experience.
that is, it speaks of 300-400 people.
The bill is aimed at establishing principles and basic safety requirements for the placement, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear, radiation and electrophysical installations. the current law " on the use of atomic energy " was adopted over 15 years ago and was based on the knowledge , experience of the nuclear industry of that time .
In 1941, it was dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the celebration of Panfilov in Moscow.
The proposed scheme of activity of the association was supported by the Kazakh Union of Farmers.
the state, like the human child, goes from two lifelong heights in life. our nation has covered a bumpy centuries-long ground , witnessed different eras .
in my opinion, your region is very favorable for the development of the tourist cluster.
this is a large surplus, of course, if we proceed from such relatively low basic prerequisites for economic growth, then this surplus will continue until 2030, "said Ivan Hamut, director of research projects at the Russian research company Petromarket.
Because 24 years after our independence, we watch and evaluate this event with a clear, correct look.
Up to 5 tons of fur coats per day are shipped to the regions of the country with a "lighthouse" cereal poured into a 1-liter bottle.
M. Rutt noted the prospects of cooperation and noted the need to introduce the best technologies for a large project in the Caspian.
As Mr. Pogrebnyaks noted, the Latvian Republic is one of the countries that are not members of the international exhibition bureau, and has repeatedly been a participant in EXPO.
and innovation remains the main focus of education development in Kazakhstan.
According to him, the film will show the beautiful nature of Kazakh land, large cities such as sauran, sidar, zhiganak, palaces of zaulim Khan, located along the silk road of that time.
The expert also explained the main areas of work of the department.
the city has formed as a major economic center, which is a donor to the republican budget and today provides a fifth of the total domestic product.	the city has formed as a large economic centre ; it is a donor of the national budget and provides one-fifth of the gross domestic product as of today .	0,73
for example, an individual entrepreneur intends to transport construction concrete "bk service."
As the diplomat noted, Kazakhstan and Hungary are historically very similar.
The purpose of the fair is to preserve and popularize the Connerian traditions of our people, popularize the potential of Kazakhstani craftsmen, and participate in the exhibition EXPO-2017.
- In the coming period we will direct all efforts to three directions.
study of the flight area, in addition to normal training, analysis of weather conditions, calculations of navigational flights should additionally study the location of search and rescue ships and aircraft, the order of interaction with them, operating modes of coastal lighting and radio beacons.
In addition, negotiations in this direction are underway with Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraqi states.
today, the plant has improved its performance in a short period of time. today we see that the plant has grown in record time , it has been founded relatively recently .
According to the Vice-Chairman of the CHA, the new composition of the meeting should contain a wide range of political and national representatives.
Therefore, it is necessary to develop parliamentary ties to improve the pace of mutual economic development, "said F.Iordak.
During the meeting, the Commissioner of Expo 2017 gave an interview to representatives of the Indonesian garden.
we pay special attention to creating the most convenient conditions for international participants.	the head of the national company also noted that special attention is paid to creating the most comfortable conditions for international participants .	0,73
it is very important to turn regional processes constructively, reducing the likelihood of conflict in the region by deepening cooperation and integration.	it is important to guide regional processes in a constructive direction by reducing potential conflicts in the region through enhanced cooperation and integration .	0,73
It should be noted that representatives of the Committee for Control in the Field of Education and Science of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan carried out awareness-raising work with teachers, parents and school graduates.	the representative of the monitoring committee have conducted outreach activities with teachers , parents , and graduates .	0,73
As noted by D.Akishev, norms and limits will once be abolished.	according to d. akishev , at the same time duplicate rules and limits will be canceled .	0,73
According to him, the practice of providing several specialists in the same industry should be abandoned.	they should be competent professionals with strategic thinking ,  - the expert said .
moreover, the strengthening and strengthening of international terrorism and extremism was of particular concern to the member States of the community.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to what is happening in the republic in all spheres of life.
who wants to be an entrepreneur in our country, who wants to become a scientist, who still says that I will work and rise higher in my interest, all the conditions are created for this, "said R. Valiev.
Thus, the forum, which takes place within two days, will become a business platform for foreign investors and local entrepreneurs, representatives of government agencies and national companies to establish bilateral partnerships and strengthen business ties.
Chairman of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Sergey Naryshkin also got acquainted with Kazakh books.
The Asian championship continues, and Kazakhstani athletes show good results.
if hotels offer an affordable price, you can give an example. "
Recall that yesterday-January 27, the Secretary of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan in an exclusive interview with strategy2050.kz Bahyt Meldeshov noted that "regional citizens show great interest in the elections held together with the local body."
the production in which you work is important because it saved the products produced here from import from outside.
even having agreed with the military unit located in the area, to provide natural, high-quality vegetables during the year.
you know that the state has been providing social protection for public servants in stages for several years, "he said.
road repairmen plan to use rails of domestic production - Aktobe rail factory.
currently, the great Turkish sugar has become a symbol of universal human values.
If a voter leaves his settlement in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an absentee certificate for the right to vote is issued to the voter, "said B. Meldeshev.
The regional office in the capital is invited to the meeting of the high-level committee as an organization that has formed an effective model of cooperation that can be applied in other regions.
in Kazakhstan there is a large industrial project "Talgo," which has been operating for many years.
On the Kazakh side, through the Steam Development Program, $50,000 was transferred as financial assistance to an organization working to restore the situation in Ecuador, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
According to him, in order to relocate the population to underground deposits - weight, cross, transshipment, grop, in the city of Satpayev, the construction of 9 residential buildings for 460 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 30.9 thousand square meters began.
Over the past 5 years, there has been a 25% decrease in mortality from cancer.
In addition, the Secretary of State touched upon important events in 2015.
He also thanked the honorary consul of the federal state (Germany) of Kazakhstan, who provided charitable assistance to talented children of Kazakhstan.
The construction of a medical outpatient clinic and a district polyclinic for 250 visits per shift in the village of zhanakorgan has also begun.
during these years, working closely with the leadership of your country, we restored the ties between Kazakhstan and Turkey, which were once severed.
the government of Saudi Arabia, members of the G-20 "groups" sent an official note confirming their participation in the secretariat of the Expo 2017 Commissioner and determined the body for preparing the pavilion at the exhibition - the scientific campus of nuclear and renewable energy named after the Kingdom of Abdullah, "the statement said.
there is no similar document of this program, since it is complex.
According to him, Kazakhstan has created equal conditions for all candidates for the deputy corps.
all of them went in stages, and perhaps there were not enough funds.
Also, special leaflets for citizens will be launched on the social network, who, on the rights of the child, need not only children, but also parents, teachers, doctors and others.
Thus, the mission will include more than 240 observers from the CIS countries, "he said.
alageum electric signs the first contract with Iranian partners for 2016 in the amount of $2 million.
After the speech, the minister handed over letters of thanks, memorable gifts and smartphones to the coaching staff and Olympians.
Deputy Minister of Agriculture Yerlan Nysanbayev reported on the preparation for spring field work.
Senate deputy S. B. introduced the experience of our country in this area.
In turn, the representative of the German Foreign Ministry for Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia noted the growing importance of Kazakhstan as a global transit country, which is the main trading partner of Germany in the Central Asian zone of the Andreas furnace.
By decision of the commission for master's and doctoral studies, a scholarship was awarded to 375 applicants for internships in leading scientific and production centers in the world.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The representative of the Orthodox Church also said that this year they plan to hold a number of events dedicated to the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
state funds will be fully used for the development of the social sphere.
we monitored the Russian experience and moved to a flexible exchange rate.
The changes and additions that are being made are also aimed at introducing an effective quota system for the removal of residual gases and the introduction of domestic trade in quotas.
in my opinion, the main goal is the implementation of five institutional reforms.
The Secretary of State expressed her gratitude for supporting our initiative to establish an Islamic food security organization headquartered in the capital.
Confirmation of participation in EXPO-2017 reflects Latvia's high interest in Kazakhstan and special friendly relations.
Through the site, we will be in demand every day, 115 applications have been accepted since 487 applications worked this year, he said.
- Today young people pay more attention to cult traditions.
During the talks, the parties agreed to expand interregional partnership in trade, economic, scientific, technical, social, cultural spheres and to send representatives of Lower Saxony to Pavlodar region this fall.
we must continue to modernize education and health in line with earlier programmes.
The meeting was also attended by well-known journalists, director of the socio-political newspaper "Yasny" and "Letter" Alan Azhibayev and director of the Department of International Relations of the Eurasian Council, a blogger in the Kazakh Internet networks zhanmbolat usen.
l. ramazanov, the council of business women invests in the support of "business women" not only in words, but also in deeds.
once again, the world is in danger that cannot be ignored.
It is very important for us to be a participant in the EXPO, "said Wang Qinzhen.
It should be noted that in our region most of women work in such social spheres as culture, education, health care.
also an electronic garden will be presented online, including strategy2050.kz. information agency.
Today, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the history of our independent country, celebrating May 1 Unity Day 25 times.
89.3 billion tenge or 18.8% in the republican volume (475 billion tenge).
It is worth noting that on behalf of the Head of State, the development of the transport and seaport in the region comes to a peak.
I think Kazakhstan will emerge from the economic crisis one of the first.
With regard to agriculture, despite the high potential, agricultural production lagged behind average economic growth. despite the considerable potential , the pace of development of agricultural production is decreasing .
As part of this visit, the parties plan to sign a memorandum on cooperation in the field of tourism.
As K. Aktaeva noted, when adopting new standards, preparing new aises for the introduction of economic management, the existing world is prone to an economic crisis, which is a classic example.
The chairman of the board visited the construction sites in Shmoz, where he got acquainted with the installations for the waterproofing of diesel fuel and the production of sulfur.
Thus, the expo is one of the state projects that allow creating new jobs and preserving existing jobs in a crisis time.
for the first time on the stage of the chamber hall, the choir team will perform the saken seifullin composition "inside the mountain" in the processing of the demeow's neibet.
the issue of rigorous selection of judges was given particular attention.
We try to be worthy defenders of the motherland and justify the trust of parents and relatives, "said the soldier of the military unit 82796 sayan Teltai.
7,234 of them were provided with housing in 2015, "said R. Sklyar.
The first republican exhibition-fair, which started today, is held in order to see the potential of Kazakh master-coloners. today 's first republican exhibition-fair is held to show the potential of the kazakh artisans .
these projects will be aimed at improving the drinking water supply of rural settlements and restoring the land humidification system.
The anti-crisis measures taken will become an easy way to stabilize the economy, balance of goods, and get out of the crisis as a whole, "said the representative of the official ministry.
A woman has long dreamed of happiness and family success. woman is the preserver of the hearth , family happiness and prosperity .
And these countries get the status of big players. "
on the Russian side, changes were made regarding the reduction of land areas, the introduction by the Kaazstan side of the procedure for the use of land in the landfill zone, and the observance by the Kazakh side of the procedure for conducting agricultural and gelological exploration.
of which 11 schools, 1 kindergarten, the remaining 10 facilities are engineering and infrastructure facilities.
During the round table, the akimats of the regions signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation and strengthening of interregional ties.
At the first stage, the company plans to produce popcorn, sweets and ready-made breakfasts at the confectionery factory.
therefore, our goal is to conduct 21 thousand graduates of this school through our system.	he has explained that now the graduate can enter the  1 " or " 2 " category , and in the future , to continue training if he wants .
wise people say: "Relatives were born."
The measures taken have reduced the number of fires in the residential sector in 2015 in all areas at times compared to 2014. in comparison with 2014 last year the number of fires failed several times due to undertaken measures .
The parties discussed relations between the two countries and media information, the Foreign Ministry said.
each relay participant passes through an obstacle course, firing lines.
the first phase of the project will cover the youth of Almaty, South Kazakhstan, Karaganda and Pavlodar regions.
macroregions should be combined within the framework of a single transport, logistics and communication structure created under the Nұrly zhol program.
Jahad-e-Sabz JSC, one of the leading companies in the field of agriculture in Iran, signed 2 memoranda between the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region on issues of agricultural development of Kyzylorda region, rice production, oilseeds, "the report said.
Singapore is a leading country in the use of information technology in judicial activities. singapore is a recognized leader in the use of information technologies in the court .
first of all, this is an appeal for developing countries to actively participate in reforming global economic governance structures, that is, to obtain rights to develop and express their positions, as well as to confront the global economic situation with other countries, "the professor said.
Within the framework of this document, in the justice system for families and children related to rape of children, the creation of mechanisms for monitoring the rights of the child in institutions, the preparation of information materials on divergence, probation, measures alternative to deprivation of liberty, support and adaptation of affected children, the press service of the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
secondly, at this crucial moment, a large-scale public association is necessary for the effective implementation of anti-crisis measures.
agro-industrial complex is an economically attractive industry, and not only a sustainably developing industry. today , the agricultural sector is one of the steadily developing and economically attractive sectors .
the document will contribute to strengthening legal guarantees for the safety of sea vessels and artificial structures located on the land shelf of Kazakhstan.
he noted that one candidate could leave several constituencies.
differences between such States could lead to conflict and war.
Preparation for EXPO-2017 is carried out in Aktobe region in other areas.
possible models of integration in the post-Soviet space, the philosophy of his views were intended and semantic to fill the spiritual vacuum, "he said.
In this regard, according to him, the volume of fixed investment capital of agriculture increased by 21.1%.
firstly, new ideas and new methods are needed in conditions of economic instability.
in the category of arts and crafts, the student of gymnasium school No. 2 was the leader.
at the end of the first year, cadets undergo a medical examination to be selected for training in military educational institutions of a foreign state.
the parties discussed the promotion of support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
1151 mandatory orders were issued to the heads of these enterprises, fines worth more than 108.7 million tenge were imposed.
During the negotiations, the Ewaldas Lithuanian delegation expressed surprise at the construction work and activities carried out.
As the deputy akim noted, a special commission will check the rental apartment.
The President correctly noted that Kazakhstan is in a critical position, as the world powers declare sanctions against each other, in addition, prices for raw materials are falling.
As the Kazakh diplomat noted, the films cover a large-scale stage of the history of Kazakhstan.
As an expert, I can say that I will accept this initiative of the Kazakh parliament.
The meeting will discuss the current activities of Euraseo, as well as priority areas of the commission's work for the coming period.
According to the results of 9 months last year, the growth of the region's economy amounted to 100.9%, we expect an annual withdrawal of about 101.5%.	in other words , the gross regional product was increased by 0.9 % for 9 months of 2015 compared with the corresponding period of 2014 and amounted to 1 254.8 billion tenge .	0,73
As part of the second five-year plan, 27 projects were introduced in 2015 with a total investment of 44.6 billion tenge and 2608 jobs were created, "he said.
As part of the signing of the memorandum concluded by the agrarian credit corporation, the parties agreed to provide agency services for the settlement and cash service of the agrarian production complex and credit associations of agricultural producers, as well as to issue loans to credit unions through the branches of the state post office in all regions and regions of the republic.
a drip irrigation system is developed here. changji hui autonomous prefecture has highly developed drip irrigation system .
I wish all participants of the forum fruitful work and all the best, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
the unity of the people is the main achievement of Kazakhstanis, the history of an independent country is the contribution of friendship of all ethnic groups.
legalized money is not considered income, so it is not taxable.
With such a high result, he celebrated the 45th anniversary of the development of the Bogatyr coal field.
the mill shop produces flour of upper, first grade and fluff.
the third step is the interview.
today, March 20, from 7.00 to 20.00, elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats were held at 9840 polling stations.
to achieve this goal, Kazakhstan is undertaking extensive institutional reforms aimed at improving state accountability, ensuring the rule of law, diversifying the economy and comprehensively developing human capital.
in the hands of young people - to live up to trust, hope.
in addition, means are provided for identifying and combating underwater sabotage threats, combat swimmers.
During the meeting, the Mayor reported on the work done in the framework of "100 concrete steps" to implement five institutional reforms of the head of state, noting that it is planned to implement 2 large projects worth 13.5 billion tenge.
I think that this could solve some problems in the relationship between the Western heads and Mr. Putin.
The ceremony was attended by heads of railway administrations of Lithuania, Kazakhstan, Georgia, maritime administration and major logistics companies, including dbschenker, interraillogisticsgmbh, navilogtransport ab.
today we signed an agreement to establish fraternal ties with the governor of the autonomous region of Shuaa Changji Hui. today we have signed an agreement on establishing of twin-city relations .
For me, wages from January 1, 2016 will increase in the social sphere. it was really encouraging to know that it was planned to increase wages of the workers of the social sector , education and health .
The Secretary of State also thanked the Ambassador for his work and wished him success in his new activities.
The festive event began with a theatrical presentation of the historical ways of Kazakhstan until independence, where pupils of kindergartens read poems about the Motherland, state symbols, independence.
modernization of the project of underground storage of natural gas in the bosoy, which will be implemented in the future, for the first time in the practice of cooperation between the kaztransgaz and the bank.
Answering a question from journalists, Sanjar Kettebekov said that one of the directions of the center is the implementation of the concept of "industry 4.0."
Kazakhstan will sign a document on the creation of a Magatan bank.
15 of them are draft recommendations on the convergence and synchronization of national legislation of Member States in the areas of countering terrorism and extremism, combating corruption and prevention, and providing humanitarian assistance.
I think that on this initiative, the head of state once again demonstrated to the world community a new way out of the impasse, "said R. Vasilenko, who previously served as ambassador on the most important instructions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
A man who has moved into the 21st century opens scientific discoveries that surprise the imagination and create new generation technologies.
the country ranks 41st among 189 countries in the ease of doing business index and 18th among 140 countries in terms of labor market efficiency.
methodological recommendations are also given to entrepreneurs on measures to adapt facilities.
the Kazakh delegation took part in the conference "dual education in the agricultural sector," examined the center of dual education of the German agricultural academy "doyl-ninburg gmbx" in the ninburg of the federal state of lower saxony.
I urge everyone to think about the importance of the educational forces and capabilities of the Expo 2017 exhibition, said V. Lossertales, Secretary General of the International Exhibition Bureau.
The accession of Kazakhstan to the world trade organization will increase the motivation and competitiveness of our country to uninterrupted work. the projected results of kazakhstan 's accession to the wto : on the one hand , kazakhstani consumer - it is , first of all , business and the public will have access to a vast and diverse market of goods and services .
growth due to the production of meat and dairy and egg products.
The head of state arrived in Tehran.
During the meeting, an exchange of views took place on the new economic policy of "Nұrly zhol" and the rapprochement of the "economic belt of the Silk Road."
without it, it is impossible to consider itself a state that has achieved modern success.
Experts from expert organizations from Kazakhstan, Russia, Iran, Mongolia, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan.
Documents on the visit of a.ambetov were signed in Moscow.
Abdikalikova noted that with the support of the European Union Kazakhstan has become a full-fledged member of the WTO.
In conclusion, the head of state stressed that our country will persevere in its efforts in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
The day of gratitude is based on the historical roots of the culture and traditions of the Kazakh people, which, worthy of continuing the great legacy of the great steppe, begin with the ancient broad qualities of joy, hospitality and mercy, "said Mr. abdykalikova.
As N.Bitimov noted, many Kazakhstani companies show interest in Afghanistan.
a person who saw the upbringing and love of his mother especially in childhood grows safely and becomes a good citizen. a child , who was brought up and took mother 's love , especially at a younger age , grows in prosperity , and become a good citizen .
This is the first stage of implementation of large industrial and innovative projects planned for implementation in Kyzylorda region. this is the " first fruit " of large-scale projects for the development of industry in the region .
The Deputy Chairman of the Senate noted that Kazakhstan's accession to the conventions of the European Council in the field of criminal justice is a priority.
According to the interlocutors, an important factor is the expansion of international legal cooperation in the context of containing the threats of the modern Universe.
This significant holiday is a vivid embodiment of the centuries-old dream of our ancestors. we celebrate one of the major holidays of kazakhstan - the day of the independence .
opening a meeting with the head of the Kazakh Orthodox community, the minister noted the significant contribution of the Russian Orthodox Church to the preservation and strengthening of interreligious harmony and unity in the country.
We in Kazakhstan keep the previous investors, produce revenue abroad and, accordingly, attract new investments in the country.
The forum remains a platform for exchanging new thoughts and experiences, "said Korlan Medikhanova, Director of the Department of Social Affairs of the CCW.
the workshop uses the most efficient and environmentally friendly technologies according to world standards.
Today, social networks are intensifying, said the chief editor of the online publication "sayasat.org" Baurzhan Tulegenov.
As for the question why Kazakhstan chose, firstly, Kazakhstan proposed to place a bank of low-enriched uranium on its territory.	also , the summit approved communiqué , which outlines the main directions of the summit 's activity , 5 action plans for different organizations - the un , the iaea , and so on ,  - he explained .
in the Majilis of Parliament today, the proportion of women is 27.1%, which is 10% more than in 2006. today , the share of women in the majilis is 27.1 % in 2016 , while in 2006 the figure was 10.4 % .
If earlier we saw that there are forecasts of scientists and experts that the crisis will be in 2007,2009, then today we do not hear a clear understanding, forecast.
within the framework of this partnership, the support required by Kazakhstan, including of a technical nature, continues.
any reforms are difficult to carry out without a share of people. it is difficult to implement any reform , if there are no people to use these changes and work .
this will help to quickly and confidently determine the legality of the marked goods.
party members and secretaries, regional, city, district party delegates take part in the congress.
clinical biochemical laboratory, x-ray and physical department.
According to Secretary of State Gulshara Abdykalikova, the approved agenda is to strengthen peace and harmony to carry out the successful development of Kazakhstan in global transformation and economic turbulence.
in our opinion, there is still no necessary conditions for its reduction. we have not yet developed the necessary conditions for its reduction .
The annual volume of cargo reception is 1.7 million tons.
The meeting was also attended by the Minister of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan dauren abayev, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, responsible employees of state bodies, as well as employees of the state corporation.
It is planned to implement the second stage of repair work of the heat supply system in the city of Semipalatinsk in relation to the facilities of Zheo-1 and p-1 with the involvement of funds from the Institute of Financial Development.
I think this will be a good basis for our joint work, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to him, "legume" hotels offer several options at favorable prices.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan participates in conflict resolution in many countries and contributes to the return to peaceful life.
Recall that to improve the economy of the city is the adoption of the law of "public-private partnership" to improve the investment client and stimulate foreign, domestic revenues.
the senator also spoke about the legislative work of parliament as part of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" for workers.
In this regard, the guests expressed gratitude for the invitation to the exhibition "Kazakhstan-2017" on the topic "energy of the future."
Note that the "circle" is determined by the national telecom operator of the white space system of Kazakhstan.
the delegation included the deputy military attache of the Republic of Turkey in the Republic of Kazakhstan lieutenant colonel, head of the planning department of the military lyceum of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey colonel rauf bilgic, company commander captain ferhat bayar, cadets sevakhattin.
another era is coming.
a man who worked continuously, searched for science, ruthlessly mastered the technique.
At the same time, according to him, the bill defines the competence of the national bank.
there are three large reservoirs where fish can be grown.
in general, the economic crisis does not cause delays in benefits and salaries.
everything passes at its own level, peacefully.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that these steps require active and effective implementation of the set large-scale tasks.
amendments and additions to the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state regulation of production and turnover of certain types of petroleum products.
the residents of the city were also very kind and hospitable.
g-global- discussion platform created at the proposal of the President of Kazakhstan.
Each visitor to the center will receive qualified advice and practical assistance in the application of green technologies.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
For courageous Kazakhstanis, this path encourages to be competitive.
Following the results of the business forum, the business people of the two countries agreed to hold the next meeting in Kazakhstan and sign documents related to useful partnership.
1,190 specialists of design organizations were trained and certified in these courses.
84 per cent of children between the ages of 3 and 6 attend preschool.
Recall that the Head of State highly appreciated the work in this area - more than 3 thousand people were awarded the jubilee medal of the 20th anniversary of the Assembly, about 10 thousand citizens - the medal of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution.
The main goal of the project is the construction of a comprehensive waste treatment plant for the airport.
comprehensive plans have been established in the national plan to further strengthen Kazakhstan's independence and create conditions for a decent life for every citizen.
The head of the region recalled that due to the decrease in demand for gardens in Kazakhstan, production volumes decreased and, accordingly, tax revenues decreased.
the standard of placing state symbols in universities and colleges, as well as in many schools, has been violated.
they organize elections of deputies of the district, city, regional maslikhats.
In addition, in March 2016 Kazakhstan will develop a bill to stimulate competition and private capital, providing for bringing antitrust legislation in line with OECD standards, "the minister said.
During the event, a statement was signed on strengthening cooperation between Italy and Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture.
Therefore, this time the country's national plan on nuclear safety was well adopted.
therefore, I invited politicians and experts to hold a joint conference of the two associations so that we could conduct mutual trade without problems.
I wanted to create the flagship of the construction industry in the market from local construction companies.
During the visit of the head of state to Paris in 2015, an agreement was reached on benefits and privileges for official participants of the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.	the agreement was developed in accordance with the government resolution № 849 of october 8 , 2015 during the visit of the head of state in paris on november 5 , 2015 .	0,74
thus, according to him, during the election campaign, social media can be used in the absence of violations of the electoral law.	thus , pre-election campaign using social media is possible within the limits of the electoral legislation .	0,74
at a meeting between the governor of Bangkok and the Paribatra, the parties discussed the development of large megacities.	the sitting with the governor of bangkok stressed the parties ' common vision of the development of the large cities .	0,74
In addition, until July 2016, methods will be developed to transfer the assets of pension funds to the management of Kazakhstani or foreign private companies.
among them, the head of the mission is Boris Flets, as well as observers from the main group, "said a member of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tatyana ohlopkova.
This year there is an improvement in the quality of education for schoolchildren. this year , the quality of knowledge has increased .
At the time of the plant's full capacity, 7.5 million tons of products will be produced.
this was done as part of the implementation of the anti-crisis work of the Istanbul plan. it was done in the framework of the istanbul action plan on anti-corruption .
As part of state support, she attracted gas and improved the heating system.
This time, more than 40 metropolitan employers will take part in the profile fair.
without work, without a profession, but residents of the capital who want to master the profession will be able to undergo professional training in the specialties of a manicured master, hairdresser, electric welder.
high qualification work consists of system, sequential and corresponding steps.
At the end of the meeting, A. Mamin gave a number of specific instructions to Kazavtodor and instructed to quickly complete the work to ensure safe and comfortable travel of the population.
The agreement was signed by the Commissioner of the exhibition EXPO-2017 rapil Zhoshybayev and the Commissioner of the Saudi Arab section at EXPO-2017, a senior adviser in the scientific campus named after the King Abdullah al-Hamu on nuclear and renewable energy.
The message notes that this year once again a tragic event is celebrated in the history of the Polish people - mass forced resettlement in Kazakhstan.
In addition, the First Deputy Akim of the region instructed the authorized state bodies to conduct special control over the work of the commission, to prevent violation of the established deadlines for the consideration of appeals.
The main goal of the deputies is not to influence our population in the world economic situation.
The need to exchange the experience of Kazakhstani and Cuban specialists in this field was noted.
this new structure will include the state-owned enterprises "population service center," real estate center, "" research and production center of the land cadastre, "" "State center for the payment of pensions."
The Akmola delegation included the chairman of the "women's ray" oksana Volkova-Michalskaya and the organizer of cultural events, an individual entrepreneur of the city of Stepnogorsk, Alexander Taganov.
today we are preparing a second version of the application, the interface of which will be changed and supplemented with new categories. we are working on a second version : we gonna add new categories .
of N. abdykalikova visited the military history museum in the structure of the national military-patriotic center, the central military orchestra and the central ensemble.
they included those who had never used drugs.
As a result, one candidate joined the maslikhat in our constituency, "said S. Zhukenbaev.
We are working on an energy efficiency project in Kazakhstan under a grant from the World Bank.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the driver and leader of the implementation of the plan of the nation. "
for the production of salt, ethane, orthophosphoric, nitric and other acids, as well as for the production of nitric, phosphorus fertilizers, plastics, paper, building materials, fabrics, varnishes and dyes and detergents.
a project to restore the environment of the growing population, co-financed by the World Bank, is currently being implemented as the only international environmental project aimed at improving the health of the population of the region.
It is worth noting that the criminal offense map will be available online for deeper access to crime expertise through the Internet portal.
the university administration, faculty and students made a great contribution to this. "
projects implemented by Kazakhstan will change the regional communications map, and not only the development of transport and transit potential, "he said.
one of us must follow the principle of "for all" and "for all." nowadays a lot depends on us , who have begun a great way " mangilik el . "
so far, only Almaty region and Almaty city are included in this program.
the mission plans to cover all regions, as well as the capitals and cities of Almaty with observation.	as of today , more than 100 observers of the cis mission have been accredited , about 100 documents are being prepared for accreditation ,  - said ye . sloboda .
therefore, together with the consortium, it is necessary to bring everything to a logical end and launch in October, "the Prime Minister instructed.
its co-organizer is "Kazakhstan engineering" uk "ak.
He stressed the importance of reforming criminal procedure legislation and introducing advanced procedural mechanisms for the protection of human rights in the context of the execution of the order of the head of State to create a law enforcement system that meets the needs of society and international standards.
Despite the difficulties, the bank's activities this year were significantly more stable than last year.
kazeosat-2 "will work normally three months before the satellite is put into operation," the acting president of Kazakhstan Space Visit JSC marat nurgozhin reported to the commission members.
According to the minister, with per capita funding, the school teacher will be the main one, since students and the school want a good teacher, in connection with which, the more the training center receives, the more funds it will have.
currently charity is a social activity of society. nowadays the charity as a social function of the society acquires a special meaning and significance in strengthening of stability and social cohesion and national unity .
In addition, this year a major overhaul was carried out in 250 schools.
now there is an election campaign, and the people control deputies claiming elections and powers. now there is a pre-election campaign , and the whole country is closely following the candidates for the deputies in the majilis and maslikhats of our country .
the oldest and most famous tumar, bringing good luck, success, wealth.
March 1 in our country is not only the first day of spring, but also the day of founding of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. since the beginning of the 20th century 5.6 million people were resettled in kazakhstan .
candidates are nominated by party lists and formed at party congresses.
the tank shall provide all registered candidates with the same airtime and printing platform.
To date, the committee is developing the concept of a new bill.
To improve the pace of this action, legislation has been amended.
Recall that a single national test will be held from June 2 to 6.
May the New Year bring happiness, happiness, success to each Shanyrak!
the global crisis is not only a risk, but also a new opportunity.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the skill of athletes was evaluated by a panel of judges consisting of judges of the national category.
thirdly, there is a need to amend existing electricity legislation.
P. Draganov correctly perceived this idea, supported the initiative of the head of Kazakhstan and expressed his readiness to work together.
Kazakhstan managed to recognize the world community.
today, in general, the strength of all initiatives accumulated for centuries is growing.
The first meetings were held in Akmola region, where the first deputy chairman of the party a.myrzakhmetov.
On February 24, 2016, members of the advisory committee, on behalf of the board of the commission, considered the issue of "applying a single tariff for the sale of railway freight to the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic and from there to the territory of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union."
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that there is evidence of incomplete understanding of the new norm and turbulent content.
in addition, the military had to check the integrity of the air navigation radio equipment, the presence of individual rescue equipment.
As part of the meeting of defense ministers of the Shu participating countries, the 3rd international festival of military brass bands of the Shu member states "Tension of the World" will be held in the capital.
Thus, we will be able to withstand the crisis in the future and reach a new socio-economic level, "said Governor of the region Alik Aidarbayev.
the manifesto of the head of our state is a document, and it has become an official document of the UN.
A commission on legalization from each district of akimat has been created in the capital for the convenience of citizens.
The main purpose of the celebration is to strengthen peace and harmony in the country, popularize national values.
After the opening ceremony of aiib, the inauguration of the board of governors took place, at which a list of the main documents on the appointment of the president, the creation of the board of directors, etc. was considered and adopted.
Such an impulse testifies to the growing interest of the Chinese scientific community and society in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, it was noted that the party's election platform is being successfully implemented.
this system includes eight skills levels in all developed States.
After hearing the reports of the members of the working group, the Governor of the region gave a number of instructions on the proposals sent to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
peaceful settlement of disputes, promotion between organizations and countries.
This noble holiday was accompanied by parliamentary elections. this bright holiday has coincided with the holding of the parliamentary elections .
Speaking at the forum, the deputy governor of Jiangsu expressed confidence in the active participation of the Chinese side in the program for the development of industrial partnership between Kazakhstan and China "Khorgos-East Gate."
they can participate in this process, acquire facilities and earn by creating jobs for Kazakhstanis and developing production, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
When I worked as Vice Minister of Education and Science in 2009-2012, we conducted a survey-monitoring in different regions on what leadership young people turn to when choosing their specialties.
after this period, the immovable property becomes the property of the tenant.
As the Chairman of the Board of Kazpost JSC noted, the main goal of the partnership is to ensure the availability of financial services to the population of rural areas.
According to Akmola Media Center in the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region, Kokshetau State University and Nazarbayev Intellectual School named after S. Ualikhanov took part in the seminar.
Also in Aktobe they plan to open their representative offices South Korea and Turkey.
here we are talking about foreign specialists who can transfer foreign experience to the state apparatus. we need to bring foreign experts to the state apparatus .
Kazakhstan currently has a high rate of access to health services at the outpatient and inpatient levels.	such changes will inevitably lead to an increase in the consumption of health services , which will require new approaches to preserve public health and labor savings ,  the minister has said .
According to the speaker, the Senate is very responsible for the implementation of the policy of the President of Kazakhstan, fulfilling the legislative functions of the entire parliament, "the most important thing is to treat the adopted laws responsibly."
During the meeting, issues of distribution of water resources between our states, distribution of water of transboundary rivers in noisy and disputed areas were noted.
It is also possible to hold at the special invitation of experts and coaches in Kazakhstan regions, "said F. Etyen.
secondly, despite the transition to the service-industrial model, the ministry proposed to carry out work on dismantling various programs.
conditions are being developed and, despite low prices, people are going to exploration.
therefore, the tank is obliged to provide objective, complete and reliable coverage of the election campaign by candidates and parties. "
During the meeting, the representative of the Georgian Student Sports Federation Alexander Gugava spoke about the training of athletes in his country: "Now we are actively preparing for the upcoming competitions.
during the week, young people do everything to experience strength, endurance and wisdom and theoretical knowledge.
the world of the President of Kazakhstan. Twenty-first Century, "which are aimed at drawing attention to global problems.
Addressing the audience, the head of state congratulated everyone on the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan.
If adopted by the EEC Council, it will enter into force on July 1, 2017, "the statement said.
The code is aimed at strengthening public confidence in state bodies, forming high-minded relations in the public service and preventing obscene behavior of public servants, "he said.
vaccination will continue.
I am satisfied with the degree of organization of competitions, and the level of athletes has increased significantly.
therefore, the decision made at the exact time of the early elections.
the issue of illicit trafficking in firearms can only be resolved through joint and coordinated efforts by attracting more states, "the meeting noted.
more than 920 thousand people took part in the action of my Kazakhstani, more than 50 thousand received medical care.
this rent will be worth up to the lease date and will not be revised, "said B. Mamytalyev.
Briefly, the program does not have any purpose to limit the use of the Kazakh language, or, as some say, eliminate it. mangilik el " - a single nation , and opportunities to learn , develop science and technology .
achieving complete disarmament, the implementation of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, "the chairman said.
the logo, developed on the basis of elements of state symbols of Kazakhstan, will be widely used in festive and thematic designs in all settlements of the region.
The Czech Republic has extensive experience and opportunities in this regard.
The S.Mkirov plant and the Indian company elcom innovations concluded a memorandum of cooperation in the field of radio electronics and communications at the exhibition site, Pztm White LLP, Kazakhstani paramount engineering and Israeli companies elbit systems in terms of production of a system based on 120 mm mortars with reversing devices and mechanical drives.
As a result, this will generally increase the level of combat readiness of the air force, and this is a priority task, "said the commander of the Air Force of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Major General of Aviation Dauren Kosanov.
According to the commissioner, this topic is fully consistent with the existing structure of the world.
In this regard, Atameken decided to hold an annual forum to establish close ties between customers and buyers of Kazakhstan, "the organizers said.
It should be noted that today 4 main meetings and 5 master classes of famous journalists, politicians and economists will be held.
thus, 571 international observers and representatives of foreign media from 51 countries of the world are currently accredited.
Almaty has a rich history of winter sports. almaty has a very rich history of winter sports .
We have a good education.
At the same time, Switzerland has every opportunity for peace, "said the commissioner of the section of the Swiss Confederation manuel salhi
long and new beginners use the state tool.
we are grateful to the administration of Alma-Ata because they attract foreign companies here to show the world that they do not receive through this project, "said the head of fisu.
today there should be the necessary social partnership with various public and state bodies, "said E. Tuletaev.
I am ready to influence the education of Malaysian students at the presidential university with the English language of instruction, "said Mohd Hashim abdullah
Recall that earlier Andrei Kashechkin announced his intention to implement projects in the field of tourism, create a cycling team and promote the Baikonur brand.
I am sure that a day of gratitude will bring each other closer. i am sure that the gratitude day will unite us closer to each other more even .
the number of active medium and small businesses is increasing.
During the meeting, Aymenov informed the head of state about the results of the regional hub and plans for the upcoming period.
mamytbekov asylzhan sarybayevich dismissed from the post of Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the authors of the project, this ticket system will be convenient and safe for residents of the city.
It should be noted that in the region, within the framework of the Indexation Map, the products of Novolek LLP are successfully sold.
The document was signed by the chairman of the board of the national company Akhmetzhan Yessimov and the chairman of the committee of the anti-corruption service.
in addition, he noted the proximity of the athletic town and sports facilities.
annual design power generation 73.18 million kW/h. since the launch of the satantium to date, 58.718 million kw/h of electricity has been generated. the project annual electricity production is 73.18 million kw / h .
public expenditure on social services has tripled in real terms in recent decades.
For the first time, the Summit discussed topical issues of comprehensive cooperation within the framework of the great silk road and made relevant recommendations to UN member states.
In this regard, I invite the forum participants to take an active part in the work of the EXPO and after this exhibition, in order to bring advanced financial mechanisms for the development of the international financial center of the capital, "concluded B. Sultanov.
the aim of the project is to raise awareness of youth about the processes of Eurasian integration and encourage them to master integration processes.
we took the example of western Australia on the principle of a simplified right to exploration.
the Minister instructed the Department of Modernization of Vocational and Post-Secondary Education, together with the education departments of the region and the capital and the city of Almaty, to create a working group.
Within the framework of the meeting, the main areas of cooperation between the capital and Ankara will be discussed.
According to him, this innovation will attract foreign investment, create new jobs and increase additional tax revenues.
nevertheless, in anticipation of a new wave of global economic crisis, we must be confident in our future, in our power.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, today it is necessary to strengthen commodity relations between regions, in this regard it is necessary to observe a balance of production and consumption in each region.
Therefore, the adoption by the head of state of a special decree on the appointment of early elections of deputies of the Majilis is a timely decision, "he said.
416 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the development of the region's economy, 30.5 billion tenge was allocated to housing construction, which is 11.2% more than in 2014.
we prepared all the examinations and testimony of the child before the arrival of the train doctors.
Nursultan Nazarbayev got acquainted with samples of finished products and talked with the labor team of the enterprise.
He noted that the new composition of the meeting should come out of the practice of nominating several representatives of the same industry.
the secondary national rating is carried out according to indicators of obtaining a building permit, connecting to the power supply system, opening enterprises, registering property in the regional centers of eight regions (capital, Almaty, Aktobe, karaganda, usher, pavlodar, kostanay, shymkent).
This is the largest of our achievements, "the president said at the forum.
For the samruk-treasury fund, the best corporate governance has been introduced - this is one of the important tasks and is definitely necessary in practice.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
During the updating of the voter list, all polling stations were clarified.
the unemployment rate was 4.9 per cent of the economically active population.
Since the beginning of the year, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs has held more than 130 meetings in the regions to explain the advantages of agricultural cooperatives. since the beginning of the year the national chamber of entrepreneurs has held more than 130 meetings in the regions to explain the benefits of the agricultural cooperatives .
this is an indicator that Jews living in Kazakhstan live comfortably, feel respect for their religion. it is evident that jews feel comfortable in kazakhstan .
Three years ago, we risked starting a project on this site with the support of Akim of Akmola region Sergey Kulagin and akim of the Tselinograd region Malgazhar Tatkeev.
The delegation included kha, representatives of ministries, scientists and experts.
the judge can only help when one of the parties seeks help: the appointment of an examination, the solicitation of some documents and the call of a witness. the head of state put forward an idea to facilitate accessibility of citizens to justice , judicial system and resolve their issues .
In order to improve technological readiness of enterprises and industries, innovative solutions in the field of automation, working equipment and digitalization will be introduced.
The chief judge of the tournament is the president of the Moscow Federation Vladimir rezanov.
The event was attended by staff of the UN secretariat, permanent representatives of member states accredited to the organization, experts of public organizations.
program partners conduct training on improving the quality of service services for staff, as well as employees of enterprises speak English.
The work of this body is open to all public and private sectors.
According to him, thanks to this, the event will attract specialists who are not in Kazakhstan.
the official statement from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Prosecutor General's Office of RK was confirmed.
Parliament passed about 80 laws.
700 teachers who studied came first as skeptics, then became optimists, the minister said.
introduction of new electronic financial support services for entrepreneurs through the egov.kz portal will allow obtaining services for all categories of entrepreneurs.
our athletes feel the strength of striving forward.
in addition, to implement and find ways to sell finished products, they launched a distribution and sales network.
According to the chairman of the Central Election Commission, on January 20, the CEC approved the calendar measures of the election campaign.
In his speech, the Kazakh diplomat familiarized the German side with the main goals and objectives of the national plan "100 concrete steps" and the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" in the implementation of five institutional reforms.
maternity leave is also provided for on a legislative basis, "said T. Duissenova.
according to him, one of the values ​ ​ of the Hague conference, more than a third of the conventions developed and adopted is a document regulating family relations with a foreign element.
common understanding and consolidated action against international terrorism. we need clear understanding and consolidated actions in fight against international terrorism that poses threat to everything which has been built over long centuries .
At the end of 2015, the volume of trade between Aktobe region and Iran amounted to 17.4 million dollars.
in general, a fifth of the total industrial production was a share of the project, and manufacturing was a fourth.
For example, the Expo-2017 exhibition is one of our areas and speaks of the need to solve creative problems, "the HP added.
building long-term experience is a program for other countries on how to build domestic and foreign policy.	majilisman concluded that the manifesto - is reasonable effort to protect our people from war and violence .	0,75
I think that after the congress of political strategists, the number of candidates from parties wishing to participate in the elections will increase, "said A. Sabyrkhanov.
rent for landscaped housing was 0.3% lower.
according to them, this is the final stage, but perhaps this is a matter that has just begun.
According to the library, the month of aymbets congratulated the participants on the upcoming day of the astronauts.
we heard the report of the leadership of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on corruption. we have conducted the hearing of the leadership of the ministry of internal affairs on the fight against corruption in the interior ministry system .
only the costs of its return are compensated, "says Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan Johan Merkel.
indeed, after a thorough study, the Kazagro experienced the world experience of cooperation in the agrarian sphere on the basis of Kazakhstan.
As Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, holding the universiade is an important image project, which will bring a significant economic effect for Kazakhstan.
national festivities will also take place on the area of a monument "a az ate і" where holiday sales, competitions in different types of sport will be held.
In total, since the beginning of the year, meetings of heads of the regional administration departments with youth were organized, dedicated to the 25th anniversary of Independence, 96 events (at the regional level) and more than 14 thousand people were covered.
The meeting considered the use of the computer program "Methods of psychological diagnosis of various dependencies" in educational organizations, as well as the anti-drug activities of central and local state bodies against the background of the reduction of the main program document - the sectoral program against drug addiction and drug trafficking for 2012-2016.
Within the framework of this law, opportunities for achieving more positive economic achievements are revealed.
all employees of the combined enterprises will retain their jobs.
According to him, the composition of the parliament will be replenished with new persons.
The annual meeting was attended by Kazakh, international experts who shared their thoughts on the transformation of the fund's group of companies and expected results.
Also, in order to provide psychological and information assistance to the population, a hotline has been organized in Akmola and North Kazakhstan regions.
classes on the development of child consciousness are being held, "the report said.
the company has shown itself on the good side and in terms of fulfilling social obligations.
this will help commercial workers check the quality of the load, and also help to consider the condition of the car.
The seminar is congratulated by the heads of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazkosmos, as well as representatives of the French company airbus defence and space, which sponsors the Platinum and Gold seminar, the German company iabg, the English company sstl.
Of course, this is difficult to implement, as in China.
such traction is the only one and is the implementation of a new type of ship made of composite materials.
elections are an exam for the entire Kazakh society.
As of today, about 300 delegates from 12 countries are expected to arrive.
amendments to consumer protection legislation are planned to be considered on first reading.
Issues of supply of domestic products to Italy were also discussed, "- said R.Sultanov.
According to Valery Spitsin, general director of the Zikstovsky plant, there is an opportunity to increase production volumes.
The Kazakh-Chinese gas pipeline is a structural part of the Turkmenistan-Uzbekistan-Kazakhstan-China cross-border gas pipeline, with a total length of more than 7.5 thousand km.
we were instructed to develop a mineral resource base in single-industry towns, since in all single-industry towns there are large industrial zoots and factories.
these indicators indicate that the role of expert centers in Kazakhstan is growing.
Following the meeting, the head of state instructed to introduce innovations and international best practices to improve the domestic sphere of public service.
Based on the results of the meeting, the prospects for intensifying the activities of the Council of Public Harmony in the capital and institutional stimulation of its development were determined.
today, in addition to watermelon, it sells early ripening fruits - apricots, cherries, strawberries, quarry and vegetable products.
today our state is strengthening and dynamically developing. the great steppe managed to preserve its rich history and culture .
The purpose of the ombudsman is to consider the issue before the court, and not before the court and arbitration. the purpose of the ombudsman - a pre-trial review before the court and arbitration .
if we take the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, then in the republic there were 1,370 councils of public consent.
Until 2020, it is planned to create a network of virtual museums and transfer all museum funds, recordings of concerts to electronic format.
Currently, it is very difficult to make big offers in tenge.
summing up the meeting, the participants called for active participation in the upcoming elections.
this approach gives great priority and contributes to the increase in sales of the company.
in addition, allows the structuring of license permits and system comments.
It is also planned to discuss and adopt a plan of anti-crisis actions of the government and the National Bank for 2016-2018.
According to the press service of the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan, such issues as the effective use of agricultural land, innovations in the field of construction, as well as planned changes in tax legislation were discussed during the meeting.
One of the initiators of this issue is the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- The peculiarity of this year is that investors will come with specific projects.
The metro is very beautiful and convenient, "he said.
free technical and professional education is being introduced, which means that today is the day of uniform development of a number of specialties and avoiding social problems, "said the N.erimbetov.
On the basis of 20 Nazarbayev intellectual schools, a mechanism has been developed to gradually draw attention to the content of the education of Kazakh schools, which began to be implemented in 30 pilot schools of the country, "the report said.
we have developed and adopted an anti-crisis plan for the next three years. we have developed and adopted the anti-crisis action plan for economic and social stability for the previous three-year period .
the growth of domestic tourism.
The event was attended by veterans of war and labor in Moscow, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora.
members and secretaries of the party, regional, district, city party delegates take part in the congress.
now it is necessary to legalize foreign property and bring funds to Kazakhstan.
According to the speaker, today a responsible, historical and visiting period is coming for the young state, as it begins to implement institutional reforms.
the agreement provides for the abolition of indirect taxation of a profitable resident of both states.
According to him, in accordance with the development strategy of the "mountain samurai" until 2022, it is planned to achieve many results.
It should be noted that during the consideration of applications, representatives of the commission will pay attention to the significance and number of achievements of family members, family traditions and relics, spiritual and moral values, ancestral knowledge, etc.
however, by turning inpatient medical and social organizations into social service centers, it is planned to provide these services not only from the budget, but also on a paid basis to other categories of citizens.
in my opinion, there are people with entrepreneurial talent.
there is a shortage of personnel for the services of the operator of sewing equipment, the teacher of preschool education, as well as a high demand for police officers and medical personnel.
I am sure that you will not lose if you take transport, logistics, tourism.
The head of the region noted the high level of work in the field of sports and thanked the athletes.
for its successful implementation, the coordinated work of all forms of government, executive, legislative, judicial and local authorities is necessary.	according to the expert , the worthy answer of our country is the national plan  100 concrete steps , " implementation of which has been already begun at the beginning of 2016 .
According to him, the Mongolian side pays special attention to the formation of Kazakh energy, overcoming the crisis of past years, the anti-crisis program of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev on May 30, 2013 approved the Concept of the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a "green economy."
wars lead to lawlessness.
Rector B. Abdrasilov, in turn, spoke about the progress of the modernization of the educational process at the academy, the introduction of innovative approaches to the training of public servants, the development of new initiatives to introduce innovative approaches to the public administration system of Kazakhstan and the experience of interaction with state bodies of Great Britain, educational institutions, as well as companies involved in the introduction of project equipment in the British public administration system.
The construction of 7 schools for 2500 places, which are planned to be introduced in 2016, is ongoing. we are proud of our president , and we strongly support all his initiatives .
Korea is experienced in the application of the act. korea has the extensive experience in the use of new icts in the electoral process .
During the meeting, the main areas of Kazakh-Spanish cooperation were discussed, as well as promising areas of joint work between the two countries.
based on the results of negotiations of k.masim and kh.m. garcia margallo agreed to further expand cooperation in all areas of interstate cooperation.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the Health Insurance Fund contributes its mechanism to the examination.
According to him, the implementation of the concept will be carried out in 3 stages.
With retirement, I decided to open my kindergarten, because I had a ready-made business idea. having reached the retirement age , i decided to open my own business , because i had the business idea , ready for realization .
it is planned to send 20-40 containers of oil as soon as possible.
In this regard, first at a meeting of the counting committee, and then in a number of gardens, statements were made that the implementation of the project on the surface and construction would not be completed within the prescribed time frame.
each of them developed professionally and socially, achieved high creative success, achieved success in work and life.
In this regard, the head of the Polish Senate thanked the Kazakh people for the good intentions that he expressed to the Polish people living in Kazakhstan.
Iranian entrepreneurs arrived in Aktobe region to familiarize themselves with the investment potential of the region.
Kazakhstan looks at natural resources, there are external and internal tests, in addition, it is necessary to develop another industry. kazakhstan is dependent on natural resources ; it is difficult to compete for other sectors .
In turn, the commercial director of the "electric locomotive plant" Andrei Ershov noted that to date, 39 electric locomotives are provided for under the current contract. "
Thus, the production capacity of the plant increased to 3,100 tons per year, 20 new jobs were created.
the signed contract will help in the future to begin preparations for participation in the exhibition, "the commissioner said.
On the basis of the rules of the contest "Safe Environment - 2016" a training plan has been developed, a schedule of classes on training subjects is drawn up weekly.
East Kazakhstan is a pilot zone for preparing programs to adapt to German educational standards taking into account the economic requirements of the region within the framework of an international project initiated by Nazarbayev-Merkel.
a bank of low-enriched nuclear fuel has been created on the territory of Kazakhstan for states planning the development of nuclear energy under the flag of magate.
It is this step that should be implemented, "the vice minister emphasized.
During the meeting, ways to further strengthen cooperation between the two countries were discussed.
The moment we arrived, we saw that many voters gathered in front of the door.
In total, 107 deputies will be selected during the election campaign, of which 98 from the party list and 9 from kha.
I am sure that the deputies of the Senate, together with colleagues at the meeting, will work on legislative support for the strategy of the head of state, "said K. Tokayev.
in his speech, he called the recently reached 80-year-old Kazakh poet and socio-political figure "green desert.
this is about 6.5 thousand apartments.
this is the continuation of the construction work of the ferry complex in the port of the cargo ship and the highway.
temirs became the fifth, and the valentine of the Meshcheryaks became the 12th.
The agreement will allow the settlement of legal relations in civil, family and criminal cases, specifying the application of article 63 of the CIS Convention on Legal Assistance.	the agreement details the application of the article 63 of the cis convention on legal assistance and legal relations in civil , family and criminal cases dated 7 october 2002 ,  the minister of internal affairs of kazakhstan kalmukhanbet kassymov has informed during the plenary session .
our entrepreneurs should establish a culture of consumption of only Kazakh products, "the expert said.
- Chairman of the Azas Peruvash Party;
The Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan justified its initiatives on dissolution in order to obtain a mandate of confidence of voters at a new stage. in a statement , requesting the dissolution of the majilis , the deputies motivated this step by a necessity to get a mandate of voters ' trust under the new conditions .
Also, a significant share of the university's budget revenues consists of state extrabudgetary funds, "he concluded.
however, according to the protocol, Kazakhstan has assumed obligations for the storage and control of goods.
today we need a direct society and a group of people working with the people who can feel patriotism well. today , we need specialists having high spirit of patriotism working with people .
As previously reported, from June 2 to 5, 2016 in the capital will be held the IV international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Tadeh."
we have a service platform in the city of Aktobe, where we provide service services. we also have a service area in aktobe , where we are engaged in the service .
including the Azersun production and logistics center, the sofi medgrupp multidisciplinary medical clinic and the northern marine rehabilitation terminal.
A well-known expert, an independent counsellor and a coach from the Netherlands are trained during the week.
In 2016, it is planned to begin construction of a seventy-five-year highway.
the problems involved.
This pavilion considers various technologies and projects that are constantly being worked out.
improving the investment climate of the region will become a hub for human capital development and innovation.
members of the commission create equal conditions for all candidates participating in the electoral process, prevent any actions of violations of the electoral process, monitor the resolution of issues and predict possible actions of administrative funds, "said Khusaynov.
That is, effective technologies, modern installations and scientific achievements are not used in this area, "said K. Tokayev.
In turn, the Consul General thanked akim yuko for the warm welcome and expressed confidence in the further development of business and partnership cooperation.
I want to note that I know well many candidates for deputies.
As a result, the Kazphosphat limited liability partnership put into operation a sports complex.
In addition, as part of the Employment Roadmap 2020, microcredits have been allocated for the creation of family farms with a benefit of 6% for a total of 512 million tenge (222 people), "the Governor of the region noted.
today we came in second place, on the 25th anniversary of liberation.
the first organized event is designed to popularize Kazakh ancient instruments, identify masters of national artifacts, and support their work.
these elections were especially held and showed the activity of the population.
economic integration within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union continued.
no complaints were received in the election process, "said A. Nosirov.
"Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan Daniyar Akishev said during the national forum" Corporate Governance: a new approach to Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness. "
early elections, in addition to references in the factors of deputies, contribute to the development of the party system in Kazakhstan.
During the implementation of the first stage, more than 50 laws were amended, 3 new laws were prepared.
In addition, according to the deputy, the elections will strengthen the confidence of the population.
According to the concept, energy companies will have direct access to the oil infrastructure of partners, "he said.
The Ambassador noted the close relations between the two countries.
To date, about 90 people are interested in the implementation of the project.
in front of us black friday, "all box office stores have great discounts, and a special portal is very convenient for use with the same benefits.
this was an important step towards consolidating efforts to ensure the qualitative implementation of the anti-corruption policy approved by the head of state.
It is worth noting that in the city there is an increase in the trend of small and medium-sized businesses.
Together with the Ministry of Tourism of the region, the regional government organized a radio show, where the commissioner spoke about the opportunities for the participation of travel agencies, the energy company of the Astrakhan region at expo 2017.
Within a few months, together with German partners, we will begin construction of a house-building plant, a cement plant with Chinese partners.
It is worth noting that scientific events are regularly held in East Kazakhstan region.
recently, in the world political arena, in the couple itself, few openly and clearly call for peace.
In the context of the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, the importance of the decision to establish a national fund became more apparent.
The main goal of the new project is to familiarize university students with the rich library fund through work and education.
also the head of Nazarbayev intellectual schools noted that the development of trilingualism will positively affect the development of the country's economy.
the world situation, in connection with which Kazakhstan is experiencing a positive and negative impact in the accelerated unification of the world economy and the political space, "said R. Alshanov.
In honor of the 25th anniversary of Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk, in order to implement the party project "Happy Childhood," the republican action "Nұr Otan to Children" is being held.
another project of the fund's group of companies is the construction of a transport and logistics center in Shymkent.
At the end of 2015, the Department of Ecology provided 1,147 services.
The main idea of this forum is the creation of a single Kazakh brand "Country of the great steppe," nominated by the head of state n.nazarbayev.
pricing policy will be monitored.
Observer status is entrusted to Iran and the EU, "said the Prime Minister.
this is a very big work, its implementation and implementation in the first half of the year.
these measures could contribute to the global non-proliferation order and be a lasting step towards a sustainable and secure peace. "
Director of the company WT Vladimir Prusakov thanked the organizers of the exhibition and shared the idea of ​ ​ creating a package of stamps.
One of the first specific instructions of the head of state was to draw up a program on the transfer of initial technical education to those wishing to free of charge. one of the specific instructions of the head of state was to create a program where the first technical training will be given to everyone free of charge .
Now, starting in 2019, all legal acts have been adopted to introduce market capacity and the effective work of electric power entities in the electricity market.
local police work closely with the civil society institution. the local police service should work closely with the civil society institutions .
Sacred regions for us, whatever the regions of the Kazakh country.
The Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan noted that the leaders of the two states are at the origins of the process of strengthening interregional cooperation between Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin.
next year the society will celebrate its 20th anniversary.
the next block c is the administrative employee.
they said that the general contractor did not transfer the necessary funds.
therefore, at present, all territorial election commissions and the Central Election Commission have voter lists.
agreements were also reached to promote cooperation in another format, as in the framework of a bilateral investment club, "said the Kazakh diplomat.
in addition, Kazakhstan has rich traditions and history.
In addition, during the meeting it is planned to evaluate the provisions of the expert council.
a case well prepared for trial in judicial practice can be examined in one or two court sessions.
Expo 2017 is the driving force of tourism development. expo 2017 is the locomotive of the tourism .
This international document regulates issues related to the provision of Kazakh and Lithuanian citizens with the possibility of serving their sentences, as well as forced treatment at home.
In general, during the celebration of the anniversary, it is necessary to focus on strengthening Kazakhstanis, forming state values, patriotism, striving for new statuses and victories, "he said.
Heads of State also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
As the forum participants noted, new information technologies are an important incentive for supervisory activities and are aimed at actively assisting in anti-terrorism activities and the investigation of crimes in this area.
The opening ceremony was attended by Chairman of the Board of "sk-pharmacy" Nurzhan alibayev, head of the region B. Kamkulov.
vaccines certified by ddsu and confirmed by quality are used for vaccination.
The general elections are the strengthening of domestic political stability and the consolidation of the entire Kazakh society, "said L. Akhmetov.
This growth is associated with an increase in crop production by 5.6%, agriculture by 3.2%, "the report said.
It shows great prospects and opportunities for the development of agricultural cooperation, "said R. Kurmanov.
the above funds will be allocated for the spring-summer work of farmers and harvesting at the rate of 6,000 tenge per 1 hectare of sown areas.
N. Ulbatyrov noted the first achievements of the project this year, noting that this study is an initiative of world business schools.
In order to develop engineering infrastructure through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, investments in 5 important projects have been attracted.
The Pugwash Movement is a major international organization of scientists, politicians and public figures for peace, disarmament, security and scientific cooperation.
Admittedly, we have such objects.
firstly, the general agreement of the member countries of the organization on trade, economic and technical cooperation should be consistently implemented and free trade zones should be created.
According to the head of state, within the framework of the international financial center "Capital" it is planned to increase the number of countries working without visas.
The issues of preparing for the Paralympic Games, creating conditions for the national team are under our control, "he added.
"Our initiative will strengthen the partnership between the countries of Europe, Asia, the Pacific and will become a regional priority program," the head of state said.
Thanks to this work, Kazakhstan has been living in a new legal institutional environment since January 1, 2016, which consists of 59 laws and more than 400 legal acts, "he said.
diphtheria disease begins with an increase in body temperature, general weakness, and pain symptoms appear when swallowed.
The head of state creates all conditions for the armed forces of independent Kazakhstan to become stronger and stronger.
In addition, the Karaganda region is not only a highly developed industrial zone, but also one of the largest cultural and scientific centers of Kazakhstan.
It began work on November 30 and will last until December 11.
It includes representatives of the metropolitan prosecutor's office, the public service agency and the anti-corruption department of the city, as well as leading representatives of the business community, well-known lawyers and legal scholars, public figures.
For 11 months, 20,350 individual receptions were held, "said Askar Myrzakhmetov.
In accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, compliance with the status of a deputy of the regional maslikhat is checked.
the parties discussed the employment of students who continue their studies in the summer, as well as graduates.
The sides discussed the prospects of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Indonesia, as well as preparations for the meeting of the intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation between the two countries.
This agreement proposes that goods at all stages of its movement be included under full innovative control. this agreement is proposed to introduce a full control over the good at all stages .
March 1 - the first day of spring, the day of winter.
therefore, the Nazarbayev through the deputy corps trusts the people who support it.
payment by corporate cards of the bank allows shippers to make payments quickly, conveniently and safely at any time of the day, on weekends and holidays.
that is, Kazakhstanis will be able to visit 19 countries without visas on national passports.
Also, Euroopter Kazakhstan Engineering and Kazaviaspas have concluded a memorandum of intent on the maintenance of existing es-145 boards, as well as on the additional acquisition of a mixed fleet of helicopters.
It is these qualities that are needed during the difficult period when we live. these qualities are very important now considering the present conditions .
In general, I can say that the work is in full swing, "said a member of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the assembly is part of the role of the association and joins within the framework of society and the most important areas.
the anthem is our sonic order, socio-political cohesion and ethnocultural identity of the citizens of our country.
More than 200 athletes from all regions of Kazakhstan took part in competitions.
The Republic of Kazakhstan joined the Republic of Kazakhstan in July 2005.
- Associate Professor of Kazakh Literature named after L.Gumelev.
now 70% of public services citizens can get through the state corporation "Government for Citizens."
The head of state noted that the country has been successfully cooperating with the Sitik Group Corporation for some time, calling the oil and gas industry the leading industry of the Kazakh and Chinese partnerships.
Therefore, the attention of the Central Asian leadership should be paid to the events.
Exchange of experiences and views in constructive dialogue, how to proceed as soon as possible and how to implement measures in the medium term. the participants exchanged experiences and opinions on the current situation in the region , we discussed the solutions for short-term problems and measures to be implemented in the medium term .
we do not know exactly how our ancestors celebrated this day.
If you look in transit, Afghanistan is a very important partner for us.
caspiya lana atyrau LLP in Atyrau region develops wool production in the region.
the seminar was held at the proper level, the recommendations were read out.
According to Zhanni Rosand, General Director of the Ulyanovsk Shipbuilding Company, Kazakhstan is one of the most important states in the world market, where a partnership has been established, which opens up great opportunities.
In addition, more than 2000 projects on subsidies worth 242.5 million tenge have been signed, "said Yerkyzina.
7 athletes took part in the Paralympic Games in London in 3 sports. national paralympic team is preparing to participate in the paralympic games .
in particular, the kameko company is ready to provide the kazatomprom with its technology for refining and conversion to free use.
We try to three times increase wind power generation and reduce pollution.
for this purpose, polling stations belonging to the electoral district in the territory of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are created at the representative offices of the Republic of Kazakhstan in foreign states.
this will allow each citizen to influence the formation of the composition of meetings. it will give every kazakhstani a chance to influence the composition of the majilis .
To this end, the Government of Kazakhstan has adopted and is gradually implementing a plan of measures to improve the rights and quality of life of persons with disabilities for 2012-2018.
I instruct the government to intensify the implementation of these programs.
at meetings in all universities and colleges, I say that this is a great victory for our state. during my visit to the colleges and universities i tell that it is a huge victory of our state that will allow it to become a center of innovation in the field of " green economy , " to demonstrate a positive example of the use of the alternative and renewable energy , " she noted .
ensuring the rule of law, improving guarantees for the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, and strengthening public control over the activities of the prosecutor's office.
all 1000 copies of coins are purchased by the Kazakhstan Boxing Federation.
1.5 billion tenge was allocated for the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas last year.
residents were required to visit the city for medicine and medical care.
Following the conference, the participating countries adopted a declaration on consent in current world and regional issues.
for example, it is an economic problem, disrespect for the individual, lack of democracy, violations of human rights and all this is part of the radicalization of society.
the share of domestic products among all types of goods of the trading house is about 40-50%.
I am sure that he will succeed, "he said.
In addition, we receive the most important education from the family, so on Saturday children should have time to communicate with their parents, get acquainted with family traditions.
In the third direction of the 2020 program (assistance in employment through training and resettlement within the framework of the needs of the employer), 14 thousand citizens were provided with free education, of which 13.1 thousand people completed their studies and were employed.
only then will our business be productive, and the subject - liquid.
full registration of documents is needed, preparations are underway.
For a quarter of a century, we have built the policy of our country from the very beginning, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the meeting was also attended by senators Mikhail Bortnik and Eleusin Sagyndykov.
but we now have a technical justification, design and estimate documentation, "said a.ariphanov.
in general, according to him, the bill is based on the provisions of the repealed law "On normative legal acts."
the parties also discussed the prospects of instruments to support national exporters and discussed the expansion of insurance and collateral issues covering the risks of financial institutions.
this will ensure the creation of the most favorable conditions for attracting investments in the exploration industry of Kazakhstan. "
It should be noted that more than 13 thousand election commissions are involved in the organization of elections.
the current crisis has made us feel that we need to improve our work. the current crisis has provided the opportunity to realize the ways to improve our work .
Also V.Nechaev told what issues were raised in the closed part of the meeting.
social jobs are provided to unemployed citizens. "
it was a policy report in response to global tests.
we will develop further.
the center is equipped with wide game rooms and vocal lessons, a dance hall, drawing rooms.
We have a bright face in front of history, which symbolized and strengthened the foundation of independence!
I congratulate all Akmolinians on the holiday. i sincerely congratulate all residents of akmola region on the holiday , giving millions of christians high spiritual joy , celebration fills the hearts of the people by kindness , mercy and love .
Kazkosmos does not stop on this path, "said M.Moldabekov.
experts saw that international conventions are well applied both in law and in practice, "said the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
Deputy Speaker of the House of Deputies of the Florin Jordake Parliament emphasized the development of friendly relations between Romania and Kazakhstan and supported the need to intensify inter-parliamentary cooperation between the two countries.
this is a direct path to checking the professionalism of judges, "said Damir Abdugaliyev.
B.Meldeshov also noted that proxies of candidates and parties, public associations, representatives of the mass media of the Republic of Kazakhstan can participate in monitoring the voting process and the vote counting procedure.
The internal affairs bodies ensure the security of all polling stations. the law-enforcement bodies have ensured the safety of all polling stations , from the delivery of the ballots , having taken them under the round clock physical security .
these are kefir, milk, sour cream, worm, cheese, butter, yogurt and other products.
The concept of the national plan was highly appreciated by domestic and foreign experts.
Inside the park are the "Square of Honor" for the Heroes of the Fatherland, "Memorial Square for those killed in the Afghan war, the Square of the best in the field of culture, art, education, sports, health care, the Square of the holders of honorary titles, the Square of the foremen of agriculture, entrepreneurship, the area of ​ ​ railway workers.
Well, this gives confidence to agricultural producers.
Spouses of foreign ambassadors in Kazakhstan hold the New Year's fair for the eighth time.
we took part in the study of the gold of the athenage plant in the capital, "he said.
According to the expert, these projects will be implemented as part of a public-private partnership.
Parliament must protect the interests of different age and ethnic groups. "
this is used in a new technology for the manufacture of bloom alumine.
According to E. Ashchikbaev, Kazakhstan actively participated in achieving these results.
According to the head of state, in a difficult period it is necessary to set a mandatory goal.
a step towards early elections was taken, and there were new opportunities for deputies to expand civic initiatives.
In recent years, our country has taken large-scale measures to improve education in the areas of public service and public administration. as you know , in recent years , kazakhstan has implemented large-scale reforms in the civil service and public administration .
Kazakhstan will receive new helicopters and increase domestic transportation, as well as increase portfolio investments, "he said.
in the near future, Kazakhstan plans to privatize more than 60 large, as well as many small state property.
parcel supermarket - a new center of the self-service format, designed to receive and send transmissions on the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the Vice-Minister called on member States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation to work together to address food security issues.
Aktobe took an active part in the fair.
The competition can be attended by scientists, researchers, groups or persons of the company who have projects implemented with the use of fertilizers in the direction of the development of energy sources, the press service said.
work is underway on the material and technical equipment of the local executive bodies of the region.
it is based on the labour standards of the international labour organization and eidu.
The institution of mediation has also intensified, which will reduce the work of the courts.
Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov instructed to comprehensively review the agreement between the two companies within a week, come to a single decision and determine how much the installed system of the system corresponds to the project and keep this issue under strict control.
The Kazakhstan plan for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms, launched on January 1, 2016, implies the beginning of a new era of history in the life of Kazakhstan. the practical implementation of the historical plan of the kazakh nation " 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms " means the beginning of a new historical era in the life of kazakhstan .
in addition, Kazakhstan, together with the Magatina organization, created a bank of low-enriched uranium.
according to the chairman of the Jewish cultural, educational and socio-political society, the initiative on early elections is correct.
The National School of the French Mayor's Office (ena) plays a key role in French political activity and for many years has been a center of training for senior staff both for the leadership of France and for the European Union.
The regional museum of art organized the exhibition "Orenburg puff handkerchiefs," where Russian craftsmen presented their handkerchiefs to citizens.
this exhibition is evidence of the consolidation of society around the policy and idea of the head of state, which from the first days of independence to the present day is the basis for the sustainable development of our country.
the code would be based on the principles of conduct of the Bangalore court and on best international practice.
however, it seems that everything takes turns.
in general, a number of natural uprisings began in the Turgai region, each county began to choose its own khan and sara. in general , there were several flash-points of the spontaneous uprising in turgay region , in each district separately , and each district elected its khan and sardar .
in addition, the President of Kazakhstan presented state awards to distinguished commanders, military personnel of the special forces, as well as keys to official apartments to the military in need of housing.
Presentation of a single-window mechanism that provides public services to all investors.
this is a matter of attention.
According to him, today in the country a lot of attention is paid to the private sector.
work is underway to repair the roads of Pavlodar. the works on reconstruction of the road from pavlodar city to the russian border were carried out fully .
The main principle of the electoral program is the revival of the national-cultural beginning of Kazakhstan and the development of traditional values ​ ​ of the people.
in particular, the Committee on Constitutional Legislation, the Judiciary and Law Enforcement Agencies is mandated to conduct bills on the reception and transit of persons with the Federal Republic of Germany and on the ratification of intergovernmental agreements on the readmission of persons illegally arrived with the Czech Republic.
The forum, like the capital, is the foundation for exchange of views and negotiations, "the expert said.
the number of employees in small and medium-sized businesses increased by 105.3% compared to last year and amounted to 106.5 thousand people.
the Eurasian group annually approves a memorandum with Aktobe, Karaganda, Kostanay and Pavlodar regions with socio-economic projects.
The head of state outlined the purpose of holding early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the head of state supported the idea to hold early elections .
According to him, this work is important for accelerating the operation of the complex.
Today, elections are convenient for the population, "he said.
the document is aimed at the implementation of the project for the industrial and innovative development of TKK enterprises.
Thus, one of the main conditions of the program is the full fulfillment by the bank entities of their obligations under financing agreements for 2012 concluded with the food contract corporation and the acquisition of forward grain for 2013-2015, as well as the absence of overdue obligations to white subsidiaries of Kazagro Holding and other financial organizations.
education is not cheap today, but we really need it.
subsequent modernization and ongoing reforms of the Kazakh economy, as a result, contribute to increased cooperation with Romania and increased trade turnover.
this will allow maintaining the achieved level of oil production in the long term, as well as creating additional jobs, "said M.Myrzagaliev.
During the meeting, the Ukrainian delegation got acquainted with the preparation of elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as discussed issues of further cooperation of the bilateral electoral body.
I know a lot of candidates.
if you are a student, then schools are being built to eliminate three-shift educational institutions. if you 're a pupil , schools are built in order to finally get away from the three-shift education .
Almaty has 7 Egyptian enterprises in the field of agriculture and trade, 100 types of products of Egyptian pharmaceutical companies are registered.
the system analyzes the execution of production plans, enables timely detection of deviations and helps to establish the causes of deviations.
now we are implementing more than 10 joint projects with foreign companies.
deposits in tenge are the best tool for saving citizens.
Preparations for an extraordinary meeting in the region and the election of deputies of maslikhats of all levels are proceeding according to the agenda plan approved by the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan. preparations for snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels in south kazakhstan region are held according to the schedule of the central election commission of kazakhstan .
the main area of ​ ​ work of this plant is the production and repair of freight wagons, as well as the development and production of military weapons for state potential structures and the naval forces of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
foreign companies prevail here, "he added.
During the visit, the National Commissioner of Indonesia p. At the initiative of the muliana, a round table was held on the theme of the Expo 2017 exhibition with the participation of the country's business community.
B. Baybek drew the attention of guests to participation in various projects.
expositions are located in 8 pavilions and open areas.
schools conduct tests, additional classes, and graduates are psychologically trained annually.
the goods are also identified by certificates that meet the necessary requirements, confirmed by a sanitary and hygienic conclusion.
elections are held brilliantly, you have created all the conditions for citizens to pay off their main constitutional debts. the elections are being held well , the conditions to fulfill your basic constitutional duty have been created .
As previously reported, Kazakhstan has ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities this year and has undertaken to implement international standards for persons with disabilities.
in the Bundestag, R. Zhoshybayev took part in a road show on the topic "Development of tourism and the economy in Kazakhstan" before EXPO-2017, organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Germany and a German parliamentarian, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
already in such a difficult period, the state is trying to implement appropriate programs for the development of the agricultural sector.
Taikazan will be handed over to the assembly session, which covered all Kazakhstanis.
therefore, the issue of a complete change of government is not on the agenda.
what influenced the development of this type of economy?
therefore, it is necessary to create a specific industry - locomotives of the economy of the republic.
I wish to congratulate you once again on this holy holiday.
this would be a gratitude to the country that closed its test site and abandoned the world's fourth arsenal of nuclear weapons, the head of state said.
elections will be an instrument for obtaining a mandate of public confidence in public policy, "said M. Abdikarimov.
your country is on its way to prosperity, "said H. Een.
In total, more than twenty draft documents were considered aimed at further expanding and deepening cooperation between the countries of the Commonwealth in various fields.
the child must live with his parents, all people must respect each other.
in crisis days, especially the joint work of any government will help to get stability and civil consent, "said K. Omarov.
the project will ensure the transfer of innovative technologies, increase the profitability of coal field development, create a new direction of industry in the region - the coal chemical industry.
this complex is provided with the necessary equipment, water and electricity on the basis of the project of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Scientific and experience in the development of animal husbandry in Kazakhstan with the effective use of pastures and the use of renewable energy sources."
each month will be dedicated to the achievements of independence and one of the values ​ ​ of the "eternal country."
accordingly, in Kazakhstan, the doom corresponds to the level of wholesale GDP in Russia.
Also in the area it is planned to create a cooperative for the production of camel milk.
now there is pressure, sanctions struggle.
the text of the law is published in the press.
entrepreneurs, entrepreneurial citizens!
in addition, a reference point for the assembly of electronic buttons was introduced at the plant.
According to him, over the past 3 years, more than 100 events dedicated to the nuclear project have been held abroad and within the state.
It is worth noting that from today all fountains in the city will be commissioned.
As responsible members of the party, we consider the interests of the Asian and Pacific region, including reducing poverty, improving the economy, and therefore our country has created a joint project. as responsible members of the un , we share the intention of the asia-pacific region to reduce poverty , improve the economy , together with undp .
Unique works of traditional and modern musical culture performed by famous Kazakh singers gave this event special national significance.
According to the expert of the youth projects department of the youth wing "Zhas Otan" under the party "Nұr Otan" Zulfira Arykbayeva, this year several new products are included in the event.
States that have achieved such a victory in such a short period are fingers. " Nazarbayev.
According to him, it is necessary to improve the quality of work due to the introduction of new technologies for the operation of irrigated land.
Therefore, today the need for early parliamentary elections is ripe, "said A.idigov.
During the meeting, ways to ensure the social and labor rights of workers and prevent job cuts were discussed.
As Mr. Abdykalikova noted, the celebration of Independence Day will allow Kazakhstanis to better understand state values, patriotic feelings.
According to the professor of the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the President of the Russian Federation, Ph.D. Semedov, each state undergoes a process of self-identification.
history has proved: the leader of the nation is the key to the basic values ​ ​ and achievements of the era of independence, "said the professor.
there were no negotiations on the sale of the airline with third parties, "qatarairways" or other institutions.
these experts, in agreement with all participants of the two countries, evaluate the holding of elections in accordance with democratic principles and ensure that elections are held in accordance with the national legislation of Kazakhstan, "said B. Frlet.
the crisis is a temporary phenomenon, and the overall potential of our economies and the volume of the market remain, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
given the current state of the economy, we are sure that this direction has been done correctly.
Today, pilots from different countries arrive to train flights in this helicopter.
the first group is enterprises subject to deep modernization through reinvestment.
In this regard, this bill contains norms based only on the May decree of the head of state, "said a member of the agrarian committee.
N.A. Nazarbayev has the right to call on leaders of other states, politicians to strengthen the world without nuclear weapons and strengthen such a good from a moral and human point of view, "said the Czech public figure.
It was also noted that parliamentary elections and regional maslikhats accelerated the anti-crisis measures announced in the Nұr Zhol program.
As co-chair of the 9th conference on participation in the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, Kazakhstan will continue its efforts to ensure its full universalization, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
He also invited company executives to familiarize themselves with the business plan by the end of the week.
Ambassador of Hungary to the Republic of Kazakhstan Andras Barani congratulated those gathered at the exhibition on the Nauryz holiday.
consists of representatives of the final parties and is headed by the chairman of the board of the commission.
public transport stops are equipped with the same type of convenient pavilions.
I want to congratulate all Kazakhstanis on Independence Day, because this holiday is the main holiday of our country. i want to congratulate kazakhstanis on the independence day because this holiday is the main holiday of the country .
Dear guys, if you set yourself a certain goal, you dream of conquering the high peaks, do your favorite things.	at the end of the event the pupils of schoolchildren 's palace have asked questions to a. aimbetov concerning his space flight in the crew of the manned spacecraft  soyuz tma-18m , " launched on september 2 , 2015 .
1,300 specialists work in the space industry.
As a result, the newly independent countries have gone through difficult stages in the formation of the national economy.
that is, a fairly strong competitive environment has developed in the economic sphere.
his creative path is huge in the preservation of Baikonur, the functioning of the space complex.
According to the Secretary of State, thanks to the correct policy of N.A. Nazarbayev. our country has made significant progress in a short time.
According to the president, this roadmap should provide not only for reducing the number of harmful emissions into the atmosphere, but also for preserving the places necessary for bioorta.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Saudi Arabia has been supporting Kazakhstan since the first days of independence.
Company leaders noted the great potential of cooperation with Kazakhstan in a number of developed and new areas.	the participants of the meeting representing iranian companies stressed a great potential of the cooperation with kazakhstan in many spheres .	0,76
the price will be cheaper by 15-20%.	it is noted that the prices for the products will be lower than the average by 15-20 % .	0,76
The National Fund was established in 2007-2008 during the global financial crisis.	the national fund was created in time when the financial crisis erupted worldwide 2007-2009 .	0,76
close cooperation between the two countries in the field of renewable energy continues.
The lecture was attended by undergraduates, doctoral students and faculty of the state academy, the press service of the academy reports.
in the document, the parties noted the concrete comprehensive measures taken by the two states to improve the safety of the storage of nuclear materials, and reaffirmed a common position on the continuation of practical cooperation in this area.
we must supply domestic sources through private investment.
these issues are taken into account in sales agreements and in case of their violation, the fund companies may terminate transactions with investors.
At the end of the meetings, Amangeldy LLP plans to conclude a contract for the supply of fruits and vegetables to the region.
The head of state expressed confidence that the cause of the global crisis lies in the gaps in the global economy and the financial system.
Currently, civil servants have a bachelor's degree, master's degree or phd, regardless of their level, the same amounts of work and wages are established, "the Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan tamara duissenova informed.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Roman Yuryevich Vasilenko.
aigul temirkhanova, children's doctor
the growth of domestic tourism.
I wish to express to your President an unlimited desire to take a decisive decision on the renunciation of nuclear weapons.	in turn , the chairman of the inter-parliamentary union expressed respect for the president of kazakhstan for daring decision to deny the nuclear weapons .	0,76
Also during the meeting, the issues of strengthening state control over compliance with building standards and rules, improving the requirements for providing an accessible environment, adapting social infrastructure facilities, employing citizens with disabilities, connecting children with disabilities to inclusive educational means, and forming a positive attitude of society to disability issues through the garden were considered.	the meeting participants have also discussed issues on strengthening state control over compliance with building regulations , as well as the improvement of requirements to ensure an accessible environment , the ongoing work on the adaptation of social infrastructure , employment of persons with disabilities .	0,76
The head of the department noted that in the near future it is planned to switch to a credit-modular system in colleges.	the minister said that it is planned to transfer to credit based modular learning in colleges .	0,76
Nursultan Nazarbayev also touched upon the main topics of the summit in Washington.	nursultan nazarbayev also outlined the main theme of the nuclear security summit held in washington , d.c.	0,76
because we need new people who treat the upcoming difficult conditions differently, "said V. Redkokashin.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that investing capital in the development of the city turned out to be profitable, and today it is compensated.
During the meeting, the team's security strategy was fully agreed.
A. Bizhanov noted that a serious legal basis for the functioning of this integration project has now been formed.
his main goal is to establish peace in the world and spend life without war, "he said.
from. Chowdhury also expressed confidence that Kazakhstan's experience in various inter-parliamentary structures will be useful for its countries.
In the main city of the country, world-famous expert associations, policy representatives, leaders of large financial structures, heads of international organizations, Nobel Prize winners, scientists will gather, discuss the topic "New economic reality: diversification, innovation and the economics of knowledge."
According to him, in total, undefeated world champions in karate-do wkf took part in it.
the mining and metallurgical complex will have a multiplier effect on the development of related industries, increase employment of the population and ensure the competitiveness of the country's economy as a whole.
folk, jazz, classical works will be performed at the festive concert.
As a result, the amount of debt decreased from $140 million to $103 million.
The message of the leader of the nation is not only a response to today's situation, but also a strategic, promising, concrete document.
According to the amendments made to the budget code for the formation of a single operator for the formation and development of road transport infrastructure in accordance with the 58th step of the program of 100 specific steps proposed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the powers transferred as a national operator "kazavtodor" and "white" - work with strategic investors on toll roads, maintenance and maintenance of roads, project management, development of road service.
Yesterday, representatives of religions and parliamentarians from around the world gathered for the first time to discuss issues of countering terrorism. for the first time yesterday the representatives of religious leaders and parliamentarians from different countries gathered together to discuss joint efforts to combat terrorism .
this led the company to a high financial result in the exchange rate of the Swiss franc.
The head of state noted that education, which is one of the leaders in education, makes a significant contribution to the training of qualified specialists for our country.
musicians perform works by great composers: the cymbalist wrote on the themes of the Roman-Korsakov opera Golden Coraz. a reading concert for orchestra and violin and others.
my phone and the children's helpline will be available.
this agreement is aimed at creating a legal basis for cooperation between the competent authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Governments of Afghanistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, prevention and prevention of emergency situations. this agreement is aimed at establishing the legal framework for the competent authorities of the governments of kazakhstan and afghanistan in the field of civil defense , prevention and liquidation of emergency situations .
the agenda contains several questions.	today , we will consider a number of these issues ,  g. abdykalikova noted .
and more than 300 training courses on substantive and sensitive topics and subjects in 2 languages.
as international observers we can control voting anywhere, "he said.
according to him, it is in this way that the tasks set by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan are realized.
Within the framework of the visit, the Kazakh delegation headed by the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan held a meeting with the Governor, Chairman of the Government of Omsk city.
According to the new rules, the duties of the station employees include services for caring for passengers with disabilities, delivering luggage to wagons and assistance in boarding.
During the talks, the issues of attracting Japanese investors to the territory of Kazakhstan were discussed, taking into account the objectives and goals of the Nұrly zhol economic policy and attracting their technologies to promising infrastructure projects.
and if it is perishable food products, then it is very difficult.
Last year, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the East Kazakhstan region amounted to 8237 enterprises.
I support the initiative of self-dissolution of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections. i support the initiative of the majilis to be dissolved .
firstly, they created a new model for protecting the interests of consumers.
As the head of state noted, reforming the sphere of education, health care and social protection of the population will improve the quality of human potential.
this year it is planned to launch a workshop for the production of rapid-production rubber.
The work put forward for the al-Farabi Prize should have an economic and social effect on the population of Kazakhstan.
According to him, Kazakhstanis have to go through the path of transformation.
At the last business meeting, a separate issue was raised along air routes.
After the transformation of the Chechen-Ingush republic, that is, in 1956-1957, many again entered the Caucasus, taking with them the soil of the Kazakh people.	after the restoration of the chechen-ingush republic in 1956-1957 , a lot of people had left back in the caucasus and one of them took a handful of the kazakh land .	0,76
According to the chairman of the commission, a meeting was held in the region with the Mayor of the city and the region, as well as heads of regional structures to discuss material and technical issues during the election campaign.	the chairman of the commission has noted that there was a meeting with the mayors of the cities and districts , as well as the heads of the members of the regional structures , where they discussed the state of the logistics of the campaign .	0,76
It should be noted that the construction of the pier is carried out by the joint-stock company "Military construction on a land plot of 1.2 hectares on the territory of the pier of the city of Aktau."
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, the total inflow of direct investments to Kazakhstan from 2005 to the first half of 2015 amounted to 215 billion dollars.
Kazakh diplomat thanked the head of the Congo for supporting Kazakhstan's foreign policy initiative within the international organization.
representatives of ministries and departments of Kazakhstan held consultations with residents of Almaty in normal mode, and train doctors, leading specialists of the capital and Almaty organized free consultations in hospitals of the city.
we observe and observe the expansion of terrorist methods and activities.
According to T. Duissenova, during the discussion, scientists noted that "the problem of unemployment, which is now happening, depends not only on the state of the new economy, but also on what knowledge many of them meet the requirements of the market."
we are talking about business relations in various areas - from funding to the supply of agricultural equipment and equipment to Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the manufacturing industry has high indicators, "he said.
each owner must understand that market freedom is not primarily a right, but an obligation.
Strengthening cooperation in border management and the fight against drug trafficking within the framework of the updated regional bombing and kadapa programmes of the European Union, as well as strengthening the cooperation of the European Union within the framework of the bombing programme on Afghan border management.
an exhibition "Glory to the Kazakh Country" takes place in school libraries for a week.
paintings and paintings here are collected from the funds of the national museum and from works that came to us from the other side.
today's visit, as well as the visit of Head of State N.Nazarbayev to Poland, strengthen our cooperation, "S. Krachevsky said.
Elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats have ended today. 75.16 % of all registered voters cast their votes by 18 : 00 astana time .
a one-year probation period is currently being introduced for newly elected judges.
the rest will continue their studies at the university and Nazarbayev University in leading positions in the world ranking.
As A. Sekeshev noted, the methods before Kazakhstan lead to the need to develop space for the country's economy.
On February 6, the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan began. the issues of charity are discussed and understood .
today the production capacity of the plant is 2.5 million liters per year, and the number of jobs is 80.
participants also called for direct and open dialogue.
forum delegates called for a more balanced "good move" against drug addicts instead of punitive measures.
Saved 1.5 trillion tenge.
the foundations of these relations were laid under the Heydar Aliyevich Aliyev and Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.
the general condition of the sick person worsens, appetite decreases, the head aches and begins to cool.
According to the agreement, these passports will be issued in electronic form and stored in the common electronic system of the countries of the customs union.
these funds will go to three steps of the Plan of the Nation - 55, 60, 61.
N.Nazarbayev noted that representatives of various industries were present at this meeting.
in turn, R. sklyar thanked the president and the former team.
secondly, this will mean that the product is really high-quality.
It should be noted that within the framework of the Astana economic forum, lectures of key speakers on economics are planned, as well as a number of events for students of Kazakh universities will be held.
By the end of this year, it is planned to put the situation center into industrial operation.
work on the modernization of this oil refinery is being completed. presently the modernization of the atyrau oil refinery has entered final straight .
many Finnish energy companies operate in the Kazakh market.
So, today the UNESCO World Heritage List includes 10 historical monuments from Kazakhstan and 3 spiritual heritage in the visual list of intangible cultural heritage of mankind.
Recall that the capital will host the conference "Religion against Terrorism," which will be attended by parliamentarians from different countries and representatives of world faiths.
first of all - through an auction providing for an increase in the cadastral (estimated) value of the land plot.
after the grand opening, guests visited the new building, got acquainted with the equipment of the new model.
visitors will be able to familiarize themselves with manuscripts and documents on the state development strategy of the country with the marks of the head of state, see unique shots of newsreels of independence.
Further, the Nurotanovites familiarized children with the cultural and sports facilities of the city with growth, a monument of eternal sin, and a monument of spots.
In total, 588 billion tenge was actively legalized in January 2016. there are also more than 27 thousand applications that are being considered .
the main thing is what school he went through, that he knew what he learned.
in the future, it is planned to increase the volume of investments to $100 million.
in the face of budget shortages, this will not contribute to a decrease in funding for agribusiness.
the project will solve the problem of import substitution in the shoe market.
The event will be held in the Palace of Independence from June 15 to 16.
Once again I am grateful for the invitation to Victory Day in Moscow.
as a result of monitoring, key recommendations were made for all resources assessed.
the main reason for the changes is the refusal of the joint venture of the Russian Federal Agency for Subsoil Use to consider the application of the oil and gas company "central" for obtaining a license for geological research, exploration and production for private exploration.
In recent years, the volume of investments in fixed assets has been steadily growing.
Also at the meeting, members of the Presidium of the Public Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan were elected.
a total of 637 people were employed, including 490 people or 76.9% in permanent work.
We have joint projects, "the akim of the region said.
the established fund will allow private farmers to invest in capital and expand their activities. the fund gives the private agricultural companies the opportunity to attract investment capital for the development and expansion of the activities .
The master class showed that representatives of the state management environment and interested national persons should instead of the image attach importance to the political and progressive strength of the country, how to include and understand partners of all sectors, how and when and how to start a precedent, strive to increase the country's influence at the interethnic level.
Head of the Kazakh delegation, Head of the Department of International Cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Adil Bekov noted that one of the priorities of the Ministry of Defense of the Armed Forces of the Republic is to train military personnel of the armed forces by studying the experience of foreign states in the framework of ensuring military security.
the script for the film was written by director Sergei Snezhkin, based on the works of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In addition, experts discussed the role of the international exhibition in the development of sustainable energy during the side event "The role of innovative hubs for sustainable industrialization and shared prosperity."
It should be noted that the main purpose of the forum is to discuss ideas, as well as exchange experience on issues of regional development and interregional cooperation.
in the political history of independent Kazakhstan, Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" - a new political course of the held state - was of great importance in the development of the country.
production of campaign printed materials outside Kazakhstan.
Also, the seats of those who left the working commissions were replaced.
According to the results of 2015, the volume of oil and condensate production in Kazakhstan amounted to 79.5 million tons. following the results of 2015 the volume of oil and condensate production reached 79.5 million tons .
Chairman and Vice President of the Supervisory Board fisu marian dymalsky, Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board kairis ulp, Director of the Winter Universiade August Milan, Assistant Director of the Winter Jiho Department Store and Assistant of the Winter Universiade paola forni.
the parties discussed the potential of trade and economic cooperation.
We also express great gratitude for supporting the membership in the International Security Council of the Egyptian country, "he said.
Since the formation of the Ukrainian public association, in close cooperation with State and local authorities, the strengthening of peace and the harmony of ethnic groups in Kazakhstan.
The European Commissioner for Kazakhstan Engineering (old) has reached an agreement on the possible supply of its helicopters to a number of Kazakhstani companies and government agencies.
we have declared a society of universal labor in Kazakhstan, established a special order of "labor glory."
for its part, Uat prefers to encourage any initiatives of persons of interest that involve the use of the data.egov.kz portal api (application programming interface) for the development of useful applications.
According to the Chairman of the Board, Tigran Sargsyan, during the meeting specific limits of cooperation between the EAEU and the European Union and the People's Republic of China were defined.
In addition, there were public structures at the Almaty akimat.
Therefore, according to him, it is very important to promote these products and introduce an ancient method of their manufacture, to establish large-scale industrial production.
new industries and new jobs are emerging across the country.
D. Kuanyshev familiarized the opposite side with the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
the economy will develop if education turns to economics, entrepreneurship.
the text of the law is published in the press.
with the growth of the plant.
Addressing the participants of the event, the President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of resolving issues relevant for the participating states.
The dark question of reforming the courts of Kazakhstan is the formation of a high-quality judiciary.
to return property and money to legal circulation.
According to him, in the activities of international organizations, N.Nazarbayev's initiatives should be used by world leaders to overcome the crisis.
such a format simultaneously explains what achievements are for the upcoming integration and what steps we will promote our integration, "he said.
at the meeting, the heads of state discussed a wide range of issues, in particular, priority areas of bilateral cooperation, as well as the state of cooperation within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Karim Massim thanked the ex-head of the "baiterek" ubh "kuandyk bishimbayev for his fruitful work and wished him success in his new activity.
As the head of state noted, from January 1, 2016, an indexed pension will be approved with an increase in inflation by 2%.
4 . Looking forward to the entry into force of the hawks, we call upon all States to continue to observe the declared moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons, a process that positively affected the closure of the Semipalatinsk test site in August 1991.
The Prosecutor General informed about the main activities of the Prosecutor's Office of Kazakhstan, as well as about the ongoing work on accession to the Council of Europe conventions in the field of criminal proceedings.
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the Majilis appealed to the president with a request to hold early parliamentary elections.
Vice President of the Romanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Aureliane Goules noted the successful experience of the Romanian trade and economic mission in Kazakhstan and the readiness to establish direct business ties between the business circles of the two countries.
new amendments to the land code will allow peasants to privatize agricultural land. the new amendments to the land code allow farmers to purchase agricultural land .
In accordance with article 89 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on March 2, 2016 registered 9 candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan nominated by the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, consisting of the following: abdrakhman, abdrakhman of abdrakhman of an abdrakhmanula, god Vladimir Vladimirovich karpovich, zhumadildayeva Natalya Vasilyevna, who novel ukhenovich, mikayelyan narin gamletovna, murad Ahmed Seydarakhmanovich, nurum dzheman usainovich, Tymoshenko Yury Evgeniyevich, hakhaz Shakir Husainovich.
ownership of their land belongs exclusively to the Kazakhstani people.
Armenia's accession to the Eurasian Economic Union creates conditions for close cooperation. with the accession of armenia to the eurasian economic union we became closer .
During the round table, the committee on legal statistics and special accounts presented information systems aimed at preventing and blocking extremist manifestations, as well as information exchange systems of law enforcement and special state bodies.
our population gave political leadership to the Nur Otan party.
Serbia's participation in EXPO 2017 became the topic of personal negotiations.
its implementation will contribute to improving the effectiveness of the law enforcement agencies of the two countries in the field of crime prevention, detection and prevention.
On December 7, 2015, at a plenary meeting of the UN General Assembly in New York, a universal declaration on the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free world, initiated by the Kazakh side, was approved. on december 7 , the un general assembly adopted a resolution endorsing the universal declaration on nuclear-free world .
Five main directions of development of our country meet dreams of Kazakhstanis, requirements of time and spirit. five main areas of development of the country meet the aspirations of kazakhstanis and comply with the requirements and spirit of the times .
I will contribute to the desire of the head of state to meet the 25th anniversary of our independence with unity and solidarity, "he said.
According to the Vice Minister, this convention will allow obtaining evidence abroad.
On the last day of the year, 235 children opened their doors here.
During the conversation, Ad.Daulbayev spoke about the main areas of activity of the prosecutor's office of Kazakhstan, the work carried out to expand and strengthen the legal framework.
The work has been completed on time.
I think that the people who developed the land code are very qualified specialists.
the idea of ​ ​ early elections is an initiative of Kazakhstani society. the idea to hold snap parliamentary elections is an initiative of the whole kazakhstani society .
in turn with. Karchevsky highly appreciated the unique experience of Kazakhstan, which ensured equal rights and opportunities for all ethnic groups living in the country.
In addition, 34.7 thousand Kazakhstanis were trained in the basics of entrepreneurship and received microcredits to organize their business as part of the ZHKZ 2020 program.
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons cannot fulfil its responsibilities.
Based on the experience of the 7 Asian Winter Games, a simplified visa regime will be created for the participants of the Universiade 2017.	currently , 54 countries have passed online registration ,  asset abdualiyev said during the fisu executive committee meeting in brussels .
K. Massimov and A. Daitogan speak about the high level of cooperation between our countries and confirm their readiness to continue close cooperation across the entire spectrum of interstate relations.
There is also a 10 percent benefit for socially vulnerable segments of the population, "the report said.
In addition, according to him, the transportation of oil through the main pipeline reached 102,750 million cubic meters.
It is worth noting that by this time, at the 2017 exhibition, which will be held in the capital, 75 countries of the world officially gave their agreements and signed 28 agreements on their participation.
Now we see what has been done.
the updated meeting will make it possible to achieve great success, since the quality of the law, the products of the population and the development of the country depend on the composition of the parliament.
they not only got into permanent jobs, but also mastered new professions, "said the head of the department of coordination of employment and social programs of Akmola region altynbek amirgaliyev.
To implement important reforms in the country, new personnel are needed.
at a meeting with the Ambassador of the Syrian Arab Republic, R. Haddad Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that Kazakhstan supports the efforts of the international community, as well as the Syrian authorities and the opposition, aimed at determining the political future of Syria through mutual dialogue and a deal to stop violence and bloodshed as soon as possible.
investment disputes, the order and methods of the new code of ethics were discussed on the agenda.
The light electronic ticket project is successfully implemented in Almaty, in a number of cities, such as Pavlodar, Karaganda and Rostec, negotiations are underway on this purpose.
According to the head of state, thanks to the professionalism of the staff of the Accounts Committee, the efficiency of using national resources is increasing.
all work is the key to the future generation.
our people have never lived as happily as they do today.
according to him, mastering these measures will contribute to the growth of investment activities and create appropriate conditions for creating a business, as well as increase the investment competitiveness of the business.
As the speaker noted, most of the surveyed leaders chose from the state to reduce state regulation and stop interfering in business.
During the congress, a new election program of the party will be adopted, the party list for the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be approved.
For the first time, we held an ecu summit and Islamic cooperation in our country, "the head of state said.
in this regard, the company management intends to come to Kazakhstan to discuss specific joint projects with Kazakhstanis.
the plan provides for a practical and comprehensive way to eliminate the causes of violent extremism, is a fruitful basis for terrorism, the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
in addition, the readiness of fighters in reconnaissance was checked in the mountainous area.
It is also planned that the head of state will visit a number of social facilities in the city.
R. Azevedo noted with satisfaction the recent visit to the country, including Kazakhstan's ratification of the agreement on trade facilitation.
payment of bonuses for a particularly effective service.
We know in which area industrial production is declining. for jan-may we have the results that the decline has slowed .
however, terrorist terrorism threatens international peace and stability.
the metropolitan told the chairman of the Senate about the religious and educational activities of the Russian Orthodox Church.
As the general director of Abdi Ibrahim Globalpharm LLP said during the teleconference, the capacity of the new plant will be 1.5 billion drugs and capsules per year.
"Infrastructure, transport, logistics."
the Kazakh model demonstrates the strong interaction of the mechanism of interethnic and interfaith tolerance in a multinational state.
we must work together so that there is more efficient production and that the plant produces a quality world.
that is, they have the opportunity to become professionals, "said Duissenova.
the government has completed the following tasks: a research center in the field of the agro-industrial complex has been created; Changes to the rules on subsidies for agriculture, livestock and agricultural equipment; " Atameken. "
Deputy Governor of the Kurgan Region, Director of the Department of Economic Development Sergey Chebykin noted that the regions have a good history of cooperation.
in Kazakhstan today, every fourth citizen is a representative of the younger generation.
The length of the new 4-lane bridge is 386 meters, the width is 3.5 meters.
the implementation of the historical document for both sides will allow to form a new partnership and expand the horizons of significant cooperation.
the level of implementation of state programs aimed at developing entrepreneurship in the region, increasing the number of livestock, developing agricultural processing.
According to the results of the certificate, until 2050, the number of ticks is expected to grow, the minister said.
previously, the registrar painted in pen all the minutes of the trial. previously , there was a secretary sitting and writing the protocol of the court session .
various training is provided, additional equipment, protective equipment are purchased, additional posts of occupational safety and safety specialists have been introduced.
to assist in the implementation of the individual plan. in order to assist in implementation of the individual plan it 's planned to have a mentor .
According to him, now the law will allow all entrepreneurs to equally participate in public procurement.
uninterrupted electricity supply to Zhambyl and Ili districts through the implementation of these projects and full satisfaction of the power load in these districts.
there were meetings with them.
this is the right thing to do beforehand.
Also, grant holders can participate in international, republican scientific conferences, symposia, congresses on the subject of research and the organization of the educational process during the year.
Departments of the situation are constantly working to improve the status of the family and promote family values.
the plant makes its demands, the Internet has completely entered our lives.
In addition, the minister noted that the main issue will be improving the investment climate in accordance with OECD standards.
the investment of Chinese projects considered the potential for the production of automotive, trucks, vegetable oil, and the export of such products as type of pipelines.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
It was also decided to participate in elections to maslikhats of all levels.
equipped with modern technologies.
All party members, despite their political views and opinions, unite in the kha deputy group to implement the model of public consent and public unity N.A. Nazarbayev.
the coming difficult period will be a period of overcoming for us.
According to him, the judge with his advice cannot help in the trial.
Now we are implementing compromise projects for the self-sufficiency of the fund, "said Tatyana Ishchenko.
At the same time, from 2019 they will begin to be transferred by 1%, from 2020 - by 2%.
Unfortunately, our story is fun, no conditions are needed that undermine the image of the exhibition, "he said.
This event, which will be held for the third time in the capital of Kazakhstan, will be attended by world suppliers of space systems for remote sensing of the Earth, their processing tools, as well as developers and users of geographic information systems and data.
The head of state noted that in the light of the current situation in the world economy and geopolitics, the scientific community of the country should speak out and offer its solutions.
Among the athletes, Kdss Baurzhan Kabakov, a novel by a shander, Vladislav Tomasevich received several medals in his personal trials.
On behalf of the akim, the residents of the district were congratulated by the first deputy akim of sko aidarbek saparov.
He noted that members of the commission can be replenished during the election campaign.
coins and banknotes presented in the national currency hall received many international awards and were recognized as the best in the world.
In addition, Kazakhstan's heat-insulating chambers are planned to be exported to Belarus.
We will manage this asset at a strategic level with pratfels, "he said.
under the agreement, khkdb will provide our country with a loan of one billion kum to finance the Republican budget deficit.
The main task of a single coordination center for a special economic zone in the Republic of Kazakhstan is to promote special economic zones and increase investment attractiveness.
Cooperation between the parties is carried out within the framework of interregional cooperation with the support of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the Mayor's Office of Almaty, the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of Almaty reported.
He expressed hope that the close partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union will be strengthened, despite the crisis trends in the global economy.
The forum is implemented as part of the execution of the instructions of the head of state to support private entrepreneurship.
The honor of the Akmola region once again had to be defended by the military-patriotic club "Honor" of the Borovsky district.
Kazakhstan became the first state in Central Asia to sign such an agreement with the second-generation European Union.
To date, a national plan has been developed, all issues are covered within the framework of the "unity and unity" direction, "he said.
isn't that right?
One of the authors of the picture thanked the Idos chess for supporting the National Museum in the work of artists and noted the uniqueness of the new work.
- information on foreign observers will be published in the near future.
if we postpone the election, this, firstly, will allow economic problems to form this or that turbulence, "the expert said.
on my initiative, two stages of negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program were held in Almaty in 2013, which contributed to the resumption of negotiations between the Six and Iran.
first of all, we tried to give athletes a comfortable form of clothing.
we are confidently implementing the task in the field of information and communication technologies and we can say that achieving the goals of the digital Kazakhstan 2020 program will create a digital platform that will increase competitiveness in sectors of the economy and improve the quality of life of the population, "said A. Zhienbaev.
This means that more than 40 new enterprises will be built.
coming to the new building of our bank, you are the first akim of the region. in addition , the ebrd is considering projects of agriculture .
More than 600 organizations were invited to participate in the congress, including more than 50 universities with a high rating, 200 reputable energy organizations and 120 scientists and Nobel Prize winners in energy, representatives of business and business circles.
This means that in this institution you can confidently look into the future of talented citizens and create conditions for career growth.
We are ready to discuss proposals for effective interaction with our Czech colleagues, "said K. Bozumbayev.
this is a timely response, that is, a new foreign policy system of the global market and economic system, "he said. kaipova.
According to the results of the half-year, we will achieve investment growth, fulfilling plans to attract investments in these proposed areas and the cities of Petropavlovsk, the deputy akim said.
schools in all developed countries introduced a five-day study week.
their total area is 6.1 hectares, of which 2 greenhouses are industrial: pv module LLP and maxim PC.
our country offers its own version of the message of the head of state. "
combining elections to the majilis of the parliament with elections to the maslikhats will allow coordinating the implementation of reforms at all levels of state power and saving budget funds.
that is, we will pursue this policy, but in the event of a threat to financial stability, the national bank will intervene in a situation where it is necessary to prevent a sharp increase in the exchange rate, "D. Akishev reported.
and all resources are used to meet this challenge.
In addition, the social composition of the message of the President of Kazakhstan is surprising.
The adoption of the law may provide for the establishment of a probation period of up to 3 months for persons who have re-entered the public service. before the adoption of the new law , it was possible to establish a probationary period lasting three months .
our goal is to make Kazakhstan an "eternal country"!
Before the representatives of business and scientific circles, the Commissioner of Expo-2017 familiarized with the preparations for the world-famous exhibition on expanding the range of bilateral cooperation and potential opportunities for business development in Kazakhstan.
The main theme of the retreat was the creation of an effective transport and logistics infrastructure, which will become a key factor in ensuring the stability of the economy of Kazakhstan.
issues of sector reform, which will not only attract private investment in thermal power, but also carry out a comprehensive modernization of infrastructure, as well as go on to solve strategic problems.
all in them comply with the norms.
From this moment, precinct election commissions begin work directly at polling stations.
The second issue is the development of the market through long-term devices, that is, the use of investments in products, the third is the creation of a Kazakhstan metal exchange on the akhko site.
A training seminar for unemployed women was launched at the People's Academy of Green Technologies, located in the village of Kanasay, Akmolov Region.
this has both an advantage and a risk.
this will not only eliminate the contradiction of interests, but also prevent risks, "B. Zhamishev explained.
with whom and how the Kazakh population should choose to modernize the country.
according to him, the launch of the portal is the beginning of the information stage.
According to him, over the past 4 years, the number of visitors to the center has increased by 2 times.
Last year, the Syrian opposition met twice in the capital, during which an important final document was adopted.
Wage growth for education, health and education workers.
- looking at the art picture, films and photo shoot, reading books, I understand that you can know the inner soul of a person.
in the development of our northern region, priority has been given to agriculture, "said the head of the region.
According to the Governor of the region, at the meeting with the authorities, it is necessary to prevent formality, and explain to the villagers reforms, including in relation to land, as well as state programs aimed at developing entrepreneurship in rural areas and rural areas.
In addition, during the meeting, the methodology (instructions) of persons holding the posts of customs authorities of the EAEU states were discussed.
without reliable financial support, economic activity would be successful.
they visited the coca-cola alma bottlers plant, located next to the industrial park.
the president of Kazakhstan also with the president of Turkey river Erdoğan, the Azerbaijani president and. Aliyev, king of Jordan and Abdalla, president of Ukraine item pporoshenko, president of Armenia page of a sargsyanama, president of Lithuania of Grybauskaite, president of Mexico e. penye not that, president of Chile m bakelite, prime minister of India N of N Modi, prime minister of Singapore l. l. Xiang.
the meeting was attended by the former US Secretary of Defense, the former US Senator, the Governor of California, etc., the founder of the cnn terner channel, the former head of gap e.g.
In terms of the nation, the ideology is not reflected, in which the task is laid to ensure a comfortable life for every citizen living in independent Kazakhstan, "said B. Butakov.
over the past five years, the amount of financing for the agricultural sector of the holding company group has grown by 60%.	so , over the past 5 years ,  kazagro " funding increased by 60 % .
with these catching-up countries, such as Kazakhstan, it is important to pay much attention not only to the rating, but also to pay attention to the sharp increase in the gap between the leading countries.
If the Majilis of Parliament decided on early elections and dissolution, this would be necessary. if the majilis decided to hold an early election , so , the decision might be necessary .
Schoolgirl No. 3 of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk read the poem "Homeland," and the winner of the republican competition for children's creativity in Alma-Ata, Ms. Sovetova, spoke about the state of the "ball-kuran."
Everyone supports the decision of the head of state. "
The Austrian side expressed its readiness to share its experience in the field of training, including providing information activities to international organizations and foreign institutions, "the statement said.
In February 2015, he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazyna Capital Management JSC, which oversees the investment block, as well as the creation and interaction of direct investment funds.
two participants from the gymnastics federation received permits.
One of the main directions of this plan is to increase the effectiveness of special social and rehabilitation services.
transport potential and large reserves of mineral raw materials, basic resources (energy and labor) provide great opportunities for the development of the mining and chemical industries, metallurgy and agriculture in the region.
at the end of this action, as the head of state said, all information on foreign accounts around the world will be rechecked.
we conducted an examination, and then it turned out that the quality assessment management system does not require a special need.
The question of the nation of a single future is the development of the fourth institutional reform "unity and identity."
for example, according to the unemployment rate of well-known social groups, information on adopted orphans, on the import of breeding cattle, on the export of wheat and flour, on the employment of university graduates, on the legalization of property, on tourist sites and destinations, on nature reserves of the South Kazakhstan region and so on.
we also discussed issues related to institutional reforms that are currently being implemented in Kazakhstan.	according to the prime minister of the netherlands , they discussed the issues related to institutional reforms , implementation of which is carried out in kazakhstan .	0,77
a sugar subsidy.	now we are now subsidizing sugar .	0,77
for this we have special equipment, devices on machines.	soldiers had three stages - individual race , relay race and fire training .	0,77
V. Matvienko expressed confidence that the legislative bodies of Russia and Kazakhstan and other countries of Eurasia will be able to do a lot to support the processes of interconnecting projects of regional and interregional integration, as well as the formation of the necessary legal framework based on the principles of equality and taking into account mutual interests.	valentina matvienko expressed belief that the legislative bodies of russia and kazakhstan and other eurasian countries can do a lot to support the combination of processes of regional and inter-regional integration projects , as well as the formation of the necessary legal framework based on the principles of equality and mutual interest .	0,77
Astrakhan-24 "(Astrakhan).
we created the conditions for your proper education, despite some difficulties in the country, including without regard to economic conditions.
It is worth noting that the project was implemented through private investment.
Kazakhstan is historically connected with this idea, "he said.
preliminary discussion of the party's election program, election of congress delegates.
Candidates for the appointment of Nazarbayev scholarships are nominated by the academic council of the university.
65 polling stations operate abroad. the polling stations , as well as here , are open from 7 am to 8 pm local time .
many hope to participate in the universiade in Almaty, "he said.
five working groups were created, which included members of parliament, domestic international experts.
today a unique ancient monument is erected in the capital - an eternal stone. "
Over the past two years alone, 250 entrepreneurs of the region received significant financial assistance under this program.
At one time, I also began to wear working clothes, stood at the fire of a blast furnace.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the decision to hold a regional conference of the IMF on the eve of the Astana Economic Forum has become an important support for us.
During the talks, the parties discussed issues of cooperation in the legal sphere and noted the importance of deepening the Kazakh-British strategic partnership.
I invite you to take an active part in the legalization of capital, tenders for privatization.
According to him, Azerbaijan pays special attention to the development of relations with Kazakhstan.
we discuss the reconstruction of small markets and the increase in their number, providing affordable food for nearby villages of the regional center.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the initiative of the deputies to hold early elections in the Majilis was comprehensively considered and discussed.
Kazakh culture is very rich and diverse, we can be proud of our culture all over the world!
The Board will compile and approve a list of public services provided to the non-governmental sector, as well as a road map for achieving the objectives.
A meeting of the committee of secretaries of the Security Council of the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization was held in Yerevan.
weak attitude towards election parties and candidates.
In general, preparations for the elections are in full swing, "said S. Baigozhin.
Land parcels not drawn up in the necessary order. not registered properly shouldn 't be legalized .
in the region, state support is provided to citizens to study the Kazakh language.
According to him, following the results of the forum, a number of agreements on business cooperation with Iranian partners were held.
On January 27, a working meeting of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held on the progress in the implementation of the action plan for the preparation and conduct of elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats.
According to the Mayor's Office, the event was held with the participation of Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of subordinate enterprises of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Governor's Office of Almaty, industry associations and city entrepreneurs.
I served 60 years in the pedagogical field, for 25 years I have been working in a veteran organization.
As the Mayor of Temirbek Kassymzhanov noted, the new school will become one of the leading in the city.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of applying international experience to high-quality exhibition content, which later allows using the Kazakhstan pavilion as the basis of the museum of the future.
for example, if mourning was left without work, all its data is on the egov portal.
the review proposes a focus on domestic and regional demand generation.
our current qualification system includes only three stages - secondary, secondary specialized and higher.
Summing up the results of the meeting, the akim of the district noted that, convinced of the effectiveness of this method, local farmers will master new technologies.
cameras are turned on automatically.
a special problem - support for socially vulnerable segments of the population, assistance to people with disabilities. a special issue is to support the socially vulnerable groups , people with disabilities .
According to him, when fulfilling the high tasks facing the state, first of all, it attaches importance to the people's elections
these are household items made of wood, leather, handicrafts in various ways, weapons, musical instruments, jewelry made of silver, works of fine art and other artifacts.
improving the system of indirect taxation of the Eaeu, compliance with tax rules to leading international standards in the field of international taxation, taxation.
In order to ensure control over the implementation of these norms, the Central Election Commission, together with the committee of communications, informatization and information of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, monitors media materials related to the current election campaign, "said a member of the CEC.
In this regard, Kazakhstanis have a competitive advantage with their export potential, "explained the rakhymbekov.
firstly, we approved at the meeting of the commission the priority normative legal acts necessary for the organization of the electoral process.
all medical organizations of the regions are provided with modern devices for diagnosing diseases, including drug resistant forms.
they're ready for sale.
4 years ago, we were in 32 place. four years ago we were on the 32nd place , " - she explained .
This year, Kazakhstanis are waiting for the departments of foreign affairs and the heads of state of West African countries.
You can also use products in large shopping centers with a large population, on the floor of institutions such as the airport, station, "said the executive director.
such debt is of an ongoing nature and is an advance of characteristic long-term projects.
The President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev addressed the heads of member states of the Eurasian Economic Union within the framework of Kazakhstan's chairmanship in Eurasian bodies.
in the face of external instability, this policy ensures that there is no sharp devaluation, and also contributes to the gradual achievement of stability without the participation of the national bank.
The Ambassador of Sweden noted that Christian Camille collects information to participants about the potential of Aktobe region and will continue to develop agriculture and mountain projects.
investors positively assess the integration potential of the region. we are making every effort to create a favorable investment climate in the region .
1.3 million tenge is allocated by local executive bodies for the sale of agricultural land.
their comments that all disputes between States are not resolved and should not be resolved by war remain relevant in the twenty-first century.
Managing the international financial center of the capital k.k.elimbetov. noted that council members are popular representatives of the areas in which work is carried out.
For comparison, as part of the spring-field campaign of 2015, 1,382 units worth about 11.5 billion tenge were allocated to agricultural producers. technology.
we spent the allocated funds on the purchase of new cars.
he noted that innovations, including trilingual policies, were being introduced into the educational process.
16 of them were held in Kazakhstan, 6 - abroad.
In accordance with the requirements of the constitution, the president submitted to the Senate a proposal to agree to the appointment of the chairman of the national security committee.
If our agreements are successfully implemented, we are ready to find investors who will invest significantly in the economy of these regions. if we can agree , we are ready to find investors willing to invest huge amounts of money into the economy of your region .
the real institution is primarily discipline, the equality of the official and the common people is ensured.
the conformity of the candidate is checked not only through the central election commission, but also persons included in the party list should be checked for compliance with the law. not only the central election commission will check on eligibility of the candidate , but also the party itself will check for compliance with the law .
According to Vladimir Korolev, Deputy Director of the Institute of State and Municipal Administration of the Higher School of Economics, Director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, the country continues to offer important initiatives distributed among all CIS states as an example.
modernization of Kazakh gardens, promotion of the ideas of the society of universal labor, plans for the implementation of a number of cultural, educational and information projects.
this is one of the mechanisms of dedollarization, "said the head of state.
elections were held openly, legally and transparently. "
As for cooperation in fish mining, Norway is developing a project with the Caspian regions.
now half a million large families receive state benefits.
whatever the political elections, the issues of finance come out horizontally.
the acting head of the regional department of economics and budget planning, beam ulaka, noted that the main requirement for crisis measures and structural modernization consists of five areas.
Nguyen chung khan noted that the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 will be presented by the Vietnamese delegation, and also noted that the visit to the capital will once again sign an agreement on the participation of the world in the exhibition.
these are famous people who make a significant contribution to the development of the capital, "said A. Zhaksybekov.
On the eve of the 25th anniversary of independence, we not only hold events, but also again demonstrate our museum.
As you know, on December 17, 2003, an indefinite moratorium on the death penalty was declared in the country.	recall , the step 31 of the national plan -  100 concrete steps " provided the transparency of the police by creating a system of public councils .
this is not easy, because now Kazakhstan is lagging behind in the financial sector, it is necessary to credit people with a potential business idea, there is not enough space for new ideas for business in the country's economy, it is necessary to create these places and reduce state participation in the eco-economy.
The institution of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan had a great influence on Polish observers.
During the meeting, the head of the region thanked Mrs. Nelsi for her visit to the South Kazakhstan region.
In turn, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yuri Tymoshenko noted that "the results of the study of the accident of the rs-20 Dnipro rocket on July 27, 2006, which gave impetus to the amendments to the agreement."
At the same time, the absolutely critical social policy of the state, strengthening democracy, improving the quality of life of citizens can be a vivid evidence, "he said.
also in the region there is a modern scientific and technical base, a high industrial and production and energy potential of the region.
This document was signed during an expanded meeting of the central apparatus of the Nұr Otan party.
I. Karimov noted that there are sincere friendly relations between the two countries, respect and mutual desire.
According to the Chairman of the Majilis, the chairmanship of Kazakhstan within the Commonwealth paid attention to strengthening mutual understanding and trust, as well as promoting initiatives aimed at maintaining security and stability in the CIS.
A procedure for determining candidates for deputies of the maslikhat of Astana has been developed, "said the chairman of the Astana city branch of the Nұr Otan party, akim of the capital Adilbek Jaksybekov at the conference.
in particular, in the Zyryansk district of the East Kazakhstan region, the prosecutor's office supported one of the candidates for deputies of the maslikhat against the chairman of the precinct election commission and opened an administrative case for campaigning before the elections.	in astana , prosecutor 's office has received two similar treatments from representative of one of the parties rakhimzhanov for action to the chairman of the election commission № 78 for failure to observe the urn ,  n. suindikov has said .
there are many nuclear weapons around the world today, enough to destroy the planet as a whole.
the number in the envelope is the number of the political party that is included in the ballot paper.
such a decision will make it possible to intensify the partnership dialogue of the business community with the member states of the union, "said a.myrsakhmetov.
There are also separate requirements for certain activities.
Within the framework of the national fair of the Singapore agency of tourist associations, the Kazakh pavilion presented the tourism potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Singapore community.
During the congress, the election program was adopted and the list of candidates from the party for elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan was approved on March 20, 2016.
for the repair and rental of premises on the ground floor of a residential building, entrepreneur Farida Yeszhanova built her own pension fee, and an installation was purchased under a grant from the state program. businessman farida yeszhanova invested personal pension savings , and due to the grant of the state program all the necessary teaching equipment was purchased , " - the statement reads .
The goal is to strengthen these relations, mutual trust and preserve them in the inheritance of the next generation.
In addition, flowers will be laid in all regions to the memory of veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
the purpose of their improvement is to increase the tactical, technical and operational nature of firepower due to installation of a modern shooting control design, strengthening the quality of dexterity, protection and command control.
Tokayev expressed the wish for further successful activities of the Turkic Academy, created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
work on the gas supply of the village - "bozoi-akbulak" and "gazli-shymkent."
The head of state noted that the country ended last year with good economic indicators, despite the difficult situation on the world market.
The project will launch electric trains and trams for large cities of Kazakhstan.
the development of an integrated system of scientific and technical information, the interaction of participants in the innovative ecosystem on the formation of startups, "etc.
this is a traditional event.
creation of a central team based on an innovative engineering center to ensure coordination of research activity within all groups of companies.
Since last year, an investor service center has been operating in the act.
Of these, more than 400 are from different regions of the country.
The main goal of holding the young akmola youth award is to increase the interest of young people in the youth movement in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
on these holidays, our spiritual qualities and intentions associated with the triumph of humanism and the achievement of a bright future are most clearly manifested. in these days of christmas our spiritual qualities and good intentions associated with faith in the triumph of humanism and happy future are shown .
it ensures the rule of law for the implementation of such an issue.
There, members of the election commission will discuss the organization of elections, "said T. Dautov.
the rural party offered to pay "family wages" to those who raise three or more children.
Finnish knives, statues of ancient Egyptian gods, handicrafts from Mongolia were in particular demand.
At the same time, I think that Kazakhstan can share its experience with us, "said the ambassador of the republic.
thirdly, competition policy must be accompanied by processes of bankruptcy and effective regulation of the rehabilitation of inefficient companies.
According to him, new people are needed to implement reforms in the composition of deputies of the lower house of parliament.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
this tool is properly thought out, developed and contributed to our fund.
The issues of preparation for the events within the framework of the 25th anniversary of the signing by the Head of State of a decree on the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site were also considered.
I think that from today it is worth starting preparations for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of independence, "the head of state said.
the Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Postal Issues," aimed at bringing legislation in line with the newly adopted Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Post."
the assembly is the basis of our Kazakh identity.
- The main problem today is the culture of rabbit meat consumption.
this is an appreciation on the part of the international community.
The public council contributes to the clear implementation of the national plan. public councils are real evidence of the implementation of the national plan .
these measures are aimed at implementing the first and second steps of the national plan, which provides for the start of activities from lower positions and further advancement on the basis of competence.
the fall in commodity prices reduced income in the country - at the same time, deflation pressure in exporting countries increased.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today developed countries face serious difficulties in combating terrorism, as it is difficult to foresee unexpected offensive actions.
Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Akir Balykbayev, who was also present at the meeting, noted that the idea of ​ ​ graduates of the "future" is this.
There are also water reserves needed to fill the island sea and irrigate crops and garden land.
therefore, it is necessary to organize centers of anti-crisis meeting of representatives of business and industrialists on the basis of specialized economic research institutes and universities of Kazakhstan.
here we must build a regime of work that does not harm the economy.
this is a new technology that is currently being tested.
Among them are pupils of orphanages No. 1 and family-type orphanages named after K. Sarymoldaev and low-income and large families aged 9 to 19 years from the city of Taraz and each district, children studying in regional boarding schools.
the Chinese side expressed its readiness to cooperate fully and respect each other on the basis of mutual benefit.
The purpose of the conference is to exchange experience, examine new directions, consider general recommendations, as well as improve legislation on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities.
The event was attended by about 100 teachers from 25 schools of the region.
we asked them many election questions, to which we received a high answer, "he said.
Tuzelbayeva noted that the economy is developing at a high rate and contributes to the development of the state.
all necessary laws have already been adopted and entered into legal force.
we will invest in the development of our homeland.
- How is preparations for the elections in the region going?
Congratulations on the March holiday.
archaeological artifacts of Akmola region and stepnogorsk historical and local history museums collected during expeditions conducted in the region are presented at the exhibition.
accreditation of medical organizations - official recognition that the institution has created all conditions for the reception and treatment of patients.
secondly, a specialized panel will be created at the Supreme Court to consider disputes, including with the participation of large investors.
We offer for investors the legal settlement of investment disputes based on English rights, which are discussed in English, where foreign judges are involved, "said E.hairov.
According to the head of the region, work in the region is carried out not only within the framework of the industrialization map.
when creating a private kindergarten, infrastructure money is not paid. opening private kindergartens it is not necessary to spend money on infrastructure .
In addition, the Commissioner of the Malaysian pavilion noted that next year Kazakhstan is actively working on the exhibition.
According to him, the Indian side is taking active steps.
As the leader of the nation noted, funding should be significantly more than in 2007-2009.
Recall, on February 5, the II extraordinary congress of the political party "Unity" was held.
Senators also unanimously approved the bill, noting that it would not entail negative socio-economic and legal consequences.
According to the results of 2015, the number of cases and materials of the region increased, if in 2014 125,421 cases were considered, then in 2015 - 133,949.
a differentiated approach to different categories of State employees has been applied rationally.
the history and ultimate foundation of our peoples is similar, fraternal.
there are and are developing special programs in the Kazakh language.
release Nogaev nurlan askarovich from the post of akim of West Kazakhstan region and appoint akim of the region, the decree says.
This year, the main efforts of the Kazakh army will be aimed at improving the skills, actions of personnel when leading to a high degree of combat readiness, increasing the readiness of units for combat in settlements and mountainous areas, improving the management system and increasing the physical training of military personnel.
the purpose of the bill is the production and circulation of precious metals and precious stones, state regulation and control of operations with precious metals and precious stones. the purpose of the bill is to create a common legal basis for regulating social relations in the area of precious metals and stones , " minister for investment and development of the country asset issekeshev said at the plenary session .
some reduce costs and increase production, others lower prices.
Secretary of State abdykalikova expressed confidence that in South Kazakhstan region women's potential will be fully used for the development and development of the region.
The Eurasian Economic Commission has formed 7-trial Eurasian technological platforms for the development of new high-tech production ("supercomputers," "medicine of the future," "LEDs," "photonics," "light industry," "brutal food and production industry" and "bioenergy").
The beginning of the 21st century was marked by the complexity of international relations and such an understanding of the policy of international military action as a way to solve an interstate issue. the beginning of the xxi century was marked by the aggravation of the international situation and military action to solve inter-state problems .
According to this resolution, the first 12 observers of the ecu/diakb mission are accredited to the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Of course, we cannot say in advance that the world is not amenable to war.
a. Fisher highly appreciated the contribution of Kazakhstan, which offered a common platform for open dialogue with religious and political figures in order to combat the threats of terrorism and extremism.
To date, a 300 memorandum has been signed with a large company producing 440 mW of electricity and 2 gcal of thermal energy.
There was also an exchange of views on the holding in Russia of a major scientific and practical conference "Religion against Terrorism."
As Minister of Education and Science Yerlan Sagadiyev noted, today there is a positive attitude of parents and the pedagogical community to school uniform.
By agreement of the two countries, an advisory council is held twice a year, "the report said.
work on import substitution with the national chamber in support of Kazakhstani producers.
The participants of the event reviewed the implementation of the instructions given by the Collective Security Council in Moscow on December 21, 2015.
perhaps you are interested in projects for the production of sanitary products and ceramic tiles. maybe you will be interested in the project for sanitary products and ceramic tiles .
Also, employees of Eurasia Invest Ltd LLP came to a meeting with studying youth.
the holiday, which began in the capital by your decision, continued, and was held with great success in the Zhambyl land, where the flag of the Kazakh Khanate was raised. according to your decision , the celebrations , started in astana , were continued with the great success in zhambyl region , where the flag of the kazakh khanate was raised for the first time .
The upcoming elections will help us to solve the tasks set for the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" and 5 specific reforms and become one of the 30 developed countries, "he said.
on the continuation of the work prepared by the Kazakh side during the negotiations on the development of the main directions of a coordinated transport policy, as well as on the coordination and approval of the draft general scheme of procedure and conditions for issuing a railway safety certificate.
We need a new strategy for the UN Conference on Disarmament.
a person who speaks the language in the labor market can enter the workplace where he wants and take up his close profession, "he said.
now it is changing.
Our financial monitoring committee has been a member of the financial intelligence unit edmond since 2011, which will allow the rapid exchange of information with 150 countries.
the memorandum is aimed at facilitating mutual access of business in our market.
a potential remote sensing project. the launch of the radar apparatus is very prospective for the development of the remote sensing .
this is the result of large-scale activities carried out in the country.
It should be noted that the main task facing the personnel of the air defense forces is the performance of combat duty to protect air borders, as well as the protection of important state, political and economic centers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Deputy Director General of UNESCO in his speech noted that "Nauryz is a wonderful holiday of cultural diversity, mutual respect and harmony," and also drew attention to the fact that its significance was recognized by the declaration as an international holiday and the inclusion of UNESCO in the visual list of the intangible cultural heritage of mankind.
Business specialists received loans at 14%, of which 10% per annum.
today we must know our country's contribution to history.	it was difficult time for the entire country .	0,78
there is a law, I understand it.	gulsara amantaeva , pensioner :	0,78
The current composition of the parliament has implemented all measures to support the country.	the current composition has taken all necessary measures to support the country .	0,78
photo and video citizen of alims	photo and video by azamat aliyev	0,78
in general, the implementation of the project stimulates scientific production communication and contributes to the development of innovation through the development of the technological incubation cycle.	it should be noted that the total cost of financing of the project is 110 million dollars , including a loan from the international bank for reconstruction and development in the amount of 88 million dollars provided to kazakhstan with a maturity of 15 years , including a 5-year grace period .	0,78
rests on any leading parliament, this is the pillar of the state. speaking about the elections , of course , it is an internal affair of kazakhstan .
progress in the implementation of a comprehensive joint action plan to resolve the situation around the Iranian nuclear program (hereinafter - the project) and the possibility of our country's direct participation in this process.	kazakhstan welcomes the progress in the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action to resolve the situation around the iranian nuclear program ( jcpoa ) .	0,78
I appeal to all to participate actively in the elections and to demonstrate once again the unity and unity in the way of the future of our country.
the region of our country, therefore, in the pilot mode, we began working with other organizations, for example, in the oil industry.
A special road map will be adopted to implement the bilateral memorandum.
now it is worth implementing a free vocational education program.
Kazakhstan, he said, should not remain a supplier of raw materials.
the problem is global, "he said.
Following the talks, an agreement was reached that working groups would be sent to Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in the coming days to develop specific proposals for the entry of the Bipek Auto - Asia Auto holding into the Tajik market.
today we will clean all the streets and plant 16,000 trees.
I am pleased to see you all at the seventh session of the Ministerial Conference of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on Food Security and Agricultural Development. i welcome all of you at the general session of the organization of islamic cooperation on food security and agricultural development .
finished products produced from the workshop are exported not only to that area, but also to the region and to the market of the city of the capital.
The national team won four gold, one silver, one bronze and first place in the team event.
secondly, Production Corporation enters into a contract with a white association for the purchase of a certain volume of wheat with payment after delivery at a fixed price.
The company also intends to create a Kazakh brand of meat and ensure its export to European countries and Russia, "said a.mamytbekov.
In turn, the representative of the Spanish delegation spoke about the optimal cooperation with Kazakhstan.
This year Kazakhmys Corporation plans to produce 224.4 thousand tons of cathode equivalent copper.
employees of state institutions, employees of organizations and large enterprises, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses saved the territory assigned to them from garbage.
this mayor has become a tradition of friendship among the peoples of the country.
every year the number of applications for citizenship increases.
Thanks to the implementation of employment measures, economic growth has increased, the unemployment rate has decreased, "said Duissenova.
"We plan to calculate the votes and see how the elections are held," said Austrian international observer Walter Schwimmer.
this will minimize the time for final court decisions and reduce the burden on judges, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
Aktobe region has great potential for the development of the agro-industrial sector and the production and processing of agricultural products.
Of course, there is a demand for high-quality products.
in addition, amendments and additions are being made to the country's Environmental Code on the establishment, issuance and amendment of the quota for waste disposal.
waiting for oil prices to rise again.
to date, the issue is considered as follows, that is, in the absence of state-civil integration, a situation of decline of the state and the state-institutional environment arises. today , if there is no public-civic identity , the conditions for the state disintegration are being created .
Ten job fairs are planned this year. this year ten job fairs will be held .
Today, the people of the country celebrate this holiday for the first time.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the relevance of developing recommendations on topical issues of the country's development within the framework of scientific research conducted by the fund.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that in 2016 our country will continue to implement a multi-vector, constructive foreign policy, the main direction of integration into the world economic space.
now I have carefully examined the objects of the exhibition being created.
Last week, within the framework of the meeting of the Council of Ministers of Defense of the CIS in Moscow, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu handed the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan an imangali Tasmagambetov a duplicate of the victory flag.
The opening ceremony of the training center was attended by the rector of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the National Center for the Examination of Medicines and Medical Products of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the regional state pharmaceutical academy, heads of pharmaceutical enterprises.
therefore, we must take care of the environment, its wealth.
In this regard, a new bill is needed to create a legal framework and comprehensively regulate relations in the field of regulation of the payment market, as well as improve standards on procedures for accepting payments and money transfers, "he said.
ya. During the conversation with the Amano, specific areas, issues of technical cooperation, signed in August this year, agreements between the first in the history of Kazakhstan and Aekha on the creation of a bank of low-enriched uranium in the country under the leadership of this organization were discussed.
Also, the meeting participants adopted proposals for cooperation between Turkic-speaking countries in the field of disasters and the fight.
and other requirements are fully reflected in the notice of competitive trade and are common to all participants.
according to the law, political parties can appoint members who have the right to an advisory vote to the electoral campaign.	however , vladimir foos said that the cec is now waiting for the party congresses ,  because at the congresses the party lists will be made . "
As part of the working trip, the Secretary of State met with the women's community of the region - deputies of maslikhats, heads of state bodies, the business community, the creative intelligentsia and non-governmental organizations.
the owners of the meetings also did not ignore the development of trade and economic ties, especially in the transit transport, oil and energy spheres.
for example, members of a limited liability partnership with only ten percent or more of the total number of votes are given the right to convene an extraordinary general meeting, "said the vice minister.
In addition, Kazakhstanis are more likely to think about starting their business than citizens of countries such as Canada, Australia, Singapore.
In accordance with the document, the parties agreed to develop and strengthen the ties of the two states in the field of physical culture and sports by exchanging scientific and methodological information on improving public health, information in the field of physical education and sports for persons with disabilities, and participating in sports events in the country.
Recall that the XIII Eurasian Media Forum is held in the capital.
the plant is operating successfully.
In total, 7,421 people and 444 pieces of equipment were involved in the construction.
It was also noted that Kazakhstan is discussing the development of a private law "On Cinema."
we want our specialists to be in demand not only at home, but also abroad, "the Deputy Prime Minister stressed.
this decision has a competitive incentive, since there is a clear understanding of the implementation of these reforms, when including an active phase of reforms, elections are very important, not paying attention to such large measures. this decision has a specific motivation , because there is a clear understanding that during implementation of these reforms it is important not to be distracted by large organizational activities as elections .
this is the common cultural value of Hungarians, Kazakhs and Turkic countries.
this will be an attractive affair for participants and tourists.
it is proposed to include the current normative legal acts and their types into the group of normative legal acts. as regulations it is offered to consider the regulations and their types existing now which are reflected in the law on regulations .
conference - a dialogue platform for the business communities of the two countries interested in cooperation, makes it possible to create new ties, conclude contracts (memoranda) for the implementation of trade and investment projects.
As you know, a number of facilities were built with the support of Saudi Arabia. you know that several objects were built with the support of the kingdom of saudi arabia .
The heads of defense departments expressed confidence that the accession of future Shu members to military cooperation will be an important area of ​ ​ strengthening mutual trust between the member states of the organization.
optimize tax treatment and leave only 3 tax levels.
Also took part in 38 international and 70 interstate events.
we have one view between Kazakhstan and Spain in addressing key issues of a regional and global nature.	he noted that kazakhstan and spain share common positions on major burning problems of regional and global security .	0,78
a memorandum was signed, agreements were concluded on the development and strengthening of friendly relations between the regions of the two countries for the further strengthening of relations.	the document is believed to give a new impulse to mutually profitable cooperation between the two countries in commercial and economic sphere .	0,78
It is on the conscripts on this day that the repayment of the debt places double responsibility, "said the bulat of the smaguls.
the meeting was held in an open, constructive discussion.
To this end, the Kazakh peacekeeping brigade operates in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main tasks of the consultative and advisory body are to improve the state of law in the country, to facilitate the implementation of the State's legal policy, and to develop and further improve the relationship of the prosecutor's office with non-governmental organizations and the population.
Recall that for the celebration of March in the capital it is planned to hold about 70 events.
Note that the agreement will contribute to the development of relations between Kazakhstan and Slovakia, will contribute to the stimulation and further development of mutual investments between the two countries.
All representatives and athletes of Germany eagerly await arrival in Almaty.
farmers gave him a positive assessment.
all artifacts collected during the action are transferred for storage to the museum fund.
the negotiating teams of the European Union and Kazakhstan carried out comprehensive work.
The special role of observers in gaining public confidence in elections. the special role belongs to the election observers - to achieve public confidence .
maintenance and repair of equipment of the Air Force of Kazakhstan will be carried out here.
Governor of the region got acquainted with the construction of the plant and met with workers.
the volume of detected financial violations increased by 3 times compared to 2014 and amounted to 1.3 trillion tenge.
I want to meet guests and participants of the summit from all regions of Kazakhstan, from abroad.
we give them elite seeds of tomatoes, cucumbers and other plants, as well as transfer agro-towns, hydrogels, all this is done to obtain environmentally friendly products and 1.5-2 times more products, and in the fall it is planned to purchase and deliver them to the shopping centers of the capital with the inscription "kz organic."
Since 2016, in accordance with the new law, admission to the civil service will begin on a competitive basis with lower positions. starting from 2016 , the admission to the civil service in accordance with the new law starts from the grassroots positions on a competitive basis .
During the round table, the head of the management of Sk Pharmacy LLP Nurzhan Alibayev made a report on "On measures to improve the purchase of medicines and medical products as part of the strategy for the development of a unified distribution system of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
According to the press service of the regional akim's office, the plant, located on the territory of the industrial zone "O t Stik," was launched as part of the Industrialization map of the industrial innovative development program, due to the fact that the project meets the requirements of state priority areas, the land plot as a subsistence grant is provided free of charge.
the ancient capital of the Kazakh khanate met the Turkestan train "The M G_l_k Ate".
In addition, K.Masimov and Sjinping expressed interest in deepening mutually beneficial cooperation in all sectors of interstate relations, including in trade, economic, industrial-innovative, industrial, investment spheres.
as well as scientific and practical conferences, round tables, meetings of intellectuals with young people, youth events, charity events and other events.
As a result, much attention will be paid to the "100 concrete steps" program, and the likelihood of overcoming the global financial crisis will increase, "said the German political scientist Matthias Dornfeldt.
this is primarily the work of the administration of justice and the knowledge of judges in terms of their professional qualifications.
within the framework of the project, students participate in the implementation of collective and individual thematic research, creative projects in the field of history, archeology and culture
first of all, thank you for your trust.	congratulations , wish you fruitful work ,  - the head of the government of the republic of kazakhstan said .
these issues remain the most responsible in Kazakhmys Corporation, "the report said.
starting next year, we will begin to gradually introduce trilingual education.
I am sure that the 21st century will be a rapidly reformed period. i am convinced that in the xxi century the success will always be accompanied by someone who can be reformed faster and deeper than others .
I constantly talk about this, society is growing from elections to elections.
its essence is aimed at the development of sports and a healthy lifestyle in the region.
According to the results of these competitions, the best tank and motorized rifle crews of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be determined, as well as selection for participation in two competitions of the army international games "tank biathlon" and "Suvorov company" in the Russian Federation.
Of course, if there is no such possibility, concrete evidence is given, then it is possible to conduct together, "said Tsarnis."
An important result of the meeting, Serkisyan stressed, was that the heads of government often met and agreed to discuss current areas of cooperation.
The new system of assessment of personnel competencies serves as an effective tool ensuring transparency of the employee's professional development, promotion, and labor incentive.
there is an opportunity to train and retrain new specialists, the experience of specialists from the college and the employment center is increasing. the enterprise provides an opportunity for training and retraining new young professionals came from the employment center and colleges .
human resources education, experience.
College - secondary medical and pharmaceutical specialists who meet the requirements of the state educational standards of secondary vocational education of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Speaking about the quantitative gap in Kazakhstan, the Minister drew attention to the age characteristics of users of digital technologies, and also noted that the availability of digital services in the countryside is lower than in the city.
this is the expansion of the obligation of manufacturers, production in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan or the import of products into the territory of the country, the cost of subsequent disposal of goods.
the first is the possibility of modernizing our ship with a French-made anti-ship missile.
This year we have a positive impulse of microcredit of the population. this year we have seen a positive trend in micro-credits .
Employees and athletes of the regional sports organization gathered at the Borovoye sports ground for the Morning Training flash mob.
In 10 years, we have come close to doubling productivity.
The document regulating the rules for the organization and conduct of sports and sports events, spectacular cultural events, provides for amendments to the Code of Administrative Offenses, the laws "on culture" and "on physical culture and sports."
he noted that the state is a regulator, it ensures the legality of all work.
According to him, a third of existing investors are expanding their production and plan to reinvest the earned income in new production.
in the evening, representatives of the Moscow literary organization gathered, students who study here, in short, in the city.
Today, our dependence on the import of octane gasoline is above thirty percent, "the minister said.
On behalf of the election commission of Ukraine, I invited my Kazakh colleagues to expand cooperation. i colleagues from kazakhstan to exchange , to study the experience of both ukraine and kazakhstan .
Besides, this action is intended to promote moral education of younger generation and to create patriotic feeling among youth within the national idea "The m g_l_k ate" ", - reported in National academic library.
that is, campaigning for political parties begins on February 20, for candidates nominated for deputies of the Majilis from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - from March 6, for candidates for deputies of the maslikhats - from February 24.
according to the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we are not currently conducting a pre-investigation check. according to the new criminal procedure code now we have no pre-investigation stage .
it is also expected to increase the role and level of national standards, improve the planning model of standardization, optimize the state metrological control in accordance with international practice.
Updating the content and improving the effectiveness of the first Turkmen commissions.
I think that thanks to the elections we will be able to strengthen the confidence of the people and the president's program and find a solution to the tasks set. i think that the elections confirmed the trust of the people , and we will continue to solve the problems in this difficult time .
K. Zhakupov noted that the main reason for making such a decision was for the parties to receive new mandates of confidence from voters, a wide public association, as well as the need to identify the actions of meetings and maslikhats to implement ongoing reforms at all levels.
The priority tasks in the development of the collective operational response forces of the Armed Forces of Ukraine are to increase the combat readiness of troops, improve the control system, comprehensively ensure and organize cooperation in the preparation and conduct of joint operations.
We were convinced that a competitive professional base will lead to the development of financial activities and increase the confidence of international investors in the market. " coles.
It should be noted that in accordance with the charter of the party "Nұr Otan" on January 21, the head of state, party chairman N.A. Nazarbayev signed a resolution on convening an extraordinary XVII party congress in Astana.
Today, in a solemn atmosphere, the head of state will launch 18 new facilities online.
The commission stopped awarding a scholarship for the new year by 700, which is 100 more than last year, he said.
According to the results of last year, the unemployment rate among women amounted to 5.7%. last year , the level of female unemployment amounted to 5.7 % .
Of course, we are preparing a feasibility study. for us , it is important .
Participants in the event - ambassadors and experts of the permanent mission to the UN, representatives of non-governmental organizations, scientific and business circles exchanged views on strengthening UN coordination, the report said.
Kazakhstan is able to take its place in the tourist market thanks to the assigned tasks and internal potential, "said M. Karimov.
these values unite all citizens of Kazakhstan, the established traditions of friendship and mutual respect are our pride and wealth.
Such an agreement was concluded during a tripartite meeting of the akim of the region M.isaev with the general director of the joint venture "katko" zh.friske and scholars of kazuau.
the meeting reviewed the implementation of the working plan for the development of acts and international contracts in accordance with the reintegration treaty.
design and estimate documentation for the construction of the plant was developed, the 2nd stage of state expertise was completed.
All actions organized by participants of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" are held free of charge, everyone can come there.
According to the speaker, the museum still has closed premises for society, but all the halls of the former residence of the head of state will be opened to the general public in the near future.
energy, transport, and telecommunications. "
the representative of the national chamber of entrepreneurs gave examples of the creation of agricultural cooperatives in Aktobe and Zhambyl region.
however, despite the positive dynamics, the first five-year plan was more difficult.
Musinov Askar Akhmetovich from the post of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
he served in many foreign countries.
R.Zhoshybayev informed about the ongoing work of Kazakhstan in preparation for the exhibition, noting that the participation of the Latvian side in the "expo-2017" will give a new impetus to strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and Latvia.
The main priority of the provision of public services in electronic form is to accelerate and simplify the process of obtaining environmental expertise, environmental permission and passports of registered waste.
in connection with the synchronization of parliamentary meetings and early elections to maslikhats of all levels. Phoos, "this is not the first electoral campaign in which the elections are combined.
However, systemic work in this area is obvious.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, rahim oshakbayev noted that Kazakhstan has created the necessary legal conditions for a favorable business climate and called on Pakistani companies to cooperate.
in order to cooperate closely in the legal sphere, it is necessary to expand the legal framework and regulate mechanisms for the exchange of information, experience and specialists.
Today, the construction industry provides the domestic market with its products.
The head of state made a lot of efforts to deepen bilateral relations with this state.
the text of the law is published in the press.
According to him, at the republican level it is planned to implement projects in the road sphere, health care, education, and the prison system.
This year will be different from the history of our agency.
this is the process of teaching prisoners new values, rules of behavior, "said the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, we expect an increase in investment from emerging companies.
The Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN expressed gratitude to the festival participants for their attention to the traditions and culture of the Kazakh people.
therefore, it is now important that Kazakhstanis not only know about them, but also take advantage of the new opportunities that they provide in practical life, economic activity or public relations.
Spain is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan in Europe. external different partners at a central and regional level continue to carry out large works .
Tamara Dusenova's working trip to France began with participation in a forum organized by the committee on employment, labor and social relations.
the exhibition is aimed at popularizing information and library resources of Kazakhstan, popularizing works of literature published during the years of independence.
100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms are aimed at bringing into line with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On public procurement," as well as improving legislation on privatization "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement."
every month takes place with the promotion of the achievements of independence and the values ​ ​ of the "eternal country."
a working group was also created with the administrations of the mayor's office of the city, such as architecture and urban planning.
The President in his article notes that the future of a united nation is the main goal of the country, the exact significance of the five institutional reforms. the president outlined the key message - the nation of the common future .
This holiday was first celebrated in 2012.
big seniors are, on the contrary, attracting specialists with rare specialized experience to Kazakhstan to show our entrepreneurs their experience, "the deputy chairman explained.
The third phase will further improve national legislation on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. the third phase provides further improvement of national legislation on protection of rights of persons with disabilities .
It is very important that this monument be opened in the capital, thanks to which we became such a popular state.
for young and start-up entrepreneurs, the Development Fund is ready to guarantee 85% of the loan amount.
this event is an important stage in the history of independent Kazakhstan.
discussing cooperation, the head of the chamber held a meeting with deputy akim of Aktobe region Galiy Iskaliev.
measures will be taken to prevent theft and theft of funds in rural settlements, "said the Vice Minister.
in addition, the sanctions confrontation between a number of countries does not have a positive impact on the world trading system.
territorial development programmes should be reformatted in the same sense.
the plant will work with innovative technologies developed by domestic scientists. the plant will operate on innovative technology developed by domestic scientists .
raw materials for tires can be brought from petrochemical production in Russia and China.
In his speech, the head of the European Cossack community, abdul kaum kesic, noted that over the past ten years, holding concerts of European compatriots has become a good tradition.
Over the years, strong cooperation has been established between the two countries.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
According to him, for the implementation of the Nұrly zhol infrastructure program, demand for the products of domestic transport engineering will begin to grow.
a code of professional ethics of independent experts has been prepared, "said B. Nurabayev.
The head of state noted that according to the state program "Nrla zhol" the transit and transport capacity of the country will develop as much as possible.
a multinational interface would also be forgiven.
being in one place, an investor can receive more than 300 types of services: a license, a pass and others.
special measures are being taken to create a favourable investment climate in the region.
after Expo 2017 225 thousand m2. the territory will move to the international financial center "Capital," said the manager of the financial center kairat kelimbets at the second meeting of international participants.
In addition, he showed that we can overcome any difficulties for the prosperity of our Kazakhstan, "N. Nazarbayev congratulated.
Recall that the XIII Eurasian Media Forum is held in the capital.
one that exists today and the other.
The local executive body operates on the electoral list. the local executive bodies are working with the electoral lists .
According to the deputy akim of Stepnogorsk, the country has become a strong, political and prosperous state.
Another project related to the processing of agricultural products is important for our agricultural region.
today we must develop a regulatory framework that takes into account the economic crisis.	this will help public authorities , the government and parliament to focus on the implementation of anti-crisis measures and institutional reforms ,  he said .
Four companies are predefined to be transferred to the competitive environment. four companies for transmission to the competitive environment have been named .
As the head of state said in his message to the people of Kazakhstan, "Today's situation is a moment when we can criticize our achievements and raise our country.
higher education institutions of developed countries are always the main suppliers of ideas and innovations. in the developed countries the universities are always the main suppliers of ideas and innovations .
The meeting was attended by the chairman of the youth wing "zhas otan" at the Zhambyl regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan" bolatbek ualikhan, a consultant to the department for Zhambyl region of the Ministry of Public Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan Begaliyev, the chairman of the public association "ponarama" stambekov baurzhan and youth of the city.
Rector of the Academy Ulan Baizhanov discussed at the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi and the Academy of the National Security Committee issues of improving the professional level of law enforcement officials, training specialists in postgraduate education programs and conducting basic scientific research.
During the meeting, the Minister of Internal Affairs reported to the head of state on the measures implemented in the framework of the reform of the law enforcement system, and on the first results of the activities of the local police, as well as on the work to strengthen the fight against crime and ensure law and order in the country.
In his welcoming speech, Governor of the region Nursultan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of the event, which President Nursultan Nazarbayev began at the 22nd session.
The second direction is that for the reform of the head of state it is necessary to consolidate the population and participate in economic reforms.
firstly, the jury at the Supreme Court will be radically reorganized.
It is worth noting that such exercises are held for the first time. it is worth noting that such exercises are conducted for the first time .
If the purpose of the previous law is not aimed at income, but at satisfying the needs of consumers, then the new law will allow peasants to receive full income, "he said.
they are destroyed, are not subject to repair and further operation.
According to him, a fine will be imposed for the exchange of open information on official information after sanctions.
military personnel of the armed forces and air defense forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan make a significant contribution to strengthening the country's defense capabilities with their achievements in combat training and service, protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our state, "said Lieutenant General Nurlan Ormanbetov, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the expert, in the second half of 2015 Kazakhstan also adopted large-scale socio-economic and political bills covering all areas.
he would intensify the work of the meeting, because the thoughts and views of other parties are important to us.
In addition, during the briefing, the results of our country's participation in four nuclear security summits were summed up.
pop stars also spoke to the guests.
today we are witnessing instability in the world, Kazakhstan must take anti-crisis measures.
According to the results of the work carried out, out of 14,852 citizens who applied, 9,315 received consultations on the processing of various social payments, 2980 people received applications for changing their details, 2557 villagers submitted documents for the appointment of pensions and benefits.
As everyone knows, the work of the main workers depends on the actions of the organization.
This year, loans worth more than 4.5 billion tenge were issued to Kostanay region's agricultural producers for spring field work and cleaning.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that only the safe and peaceful development of the country will be the key to its further prosperity.
in a short time we have achieved the successes that other States have not achieved.
In total, during the visit, more than 10 large companies signed 12 memoranda with Almaty region totaling more than $2 billion.
the road is divided into two parts, one began construction and installation work in 2014, the second part develops a dock from the Aktobe-Atyrau highway to the Aktobe-Orsk highway.
all people - creatives, engineers can be present here, after which the exit of the Austrian pavilion will be known.
As a member of the CEC noted, with such actions Kazakhstan contributes to the international position on election control.
In particular, 8 trucks with a total load of 270 tons of food with 30 types of agricultural goods at cheaper prices will go to 3 districts.
within the framework of the activities, the activities of the national bank will be brought to society, financial institutions and state bodies.
this will be officially announced at a meeting of the WTO General Council.
Astana also had many children of this region.
N.Nazarbayev's initiative is a global energy strategy and a green bridge. "
I think that the consulate of Hungary, which opened in Aktobe, will have a great influence, "Saparbayev said.
I would answer your question that the economic crisis means not only risks, but also new opportunities.
cooperation is carried out through an authorized competent authority, upon whose request the necessary assistance will be provided.
4.5 units of agricultural equipment and 9 out of 10 microcredits are issued according to the structure of Kazagro.
by tradition, on Defender of the Fatherland Day, the President of Kazakhstan gives an order to appoint the next military rank and award awards to outstanding military personnel.
The entry into the new legislature of politicians, economists, lawyers and entrepreneurs provides a more effective opportunity to develop and implement a strategy.
active cadets from the military institute and representatives of the women's council.
Recall, on January 20, a decree was signed on the dissolution of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
because March 1 is the day of the formation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "he said.
now you will work to make our country a prosperous state.
Speaking about the political, economic and cultural ties between Kazakhstan and the Eurasian Economic Union, Mr. Isimbayeva also expressed hope that the process of ratification of the agreement on expanding cooperation and partnership signed in December 2015 will become the support of the European Parliament and Latvia.
To date, 600 workers and about 150 teenagers are constantly engaged in this sports complex.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan has a large agricultural sector, there is an important commodity sector.
this is a third of the legalized funds over the previous 15 months.
This year, work will be carried out on the further development of dairy farms and milk reception points. this year we will continue to implement one of the key objectives - development of dairy farms and milk collection points .
The head of the region wished a trip to the campaign train, the initiator of which handed over the white flag of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to representatives of the Nұr Otan party.
they talk a lot about the president as an initiative, integrator.	at the same time , president nursultan nazarbayev always offers the recipes and concepts preserving the independence and peace in the world .	0,79
Treat all neighbouring countries with understanding.	children should live in a family , all people should respect each other , understand the traditions of the planet .	0,79
we make these ceilings from the teeth of car wheels.
there is an agreement with the Russian Federation on joint work on the production of weapons and the relocation of some enterprises to Kazakhstan.
29 appeals (25.7%) are related to the election campaign for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of cooperation of this bank with Aktobe region in such sectors as water supply, housing and road construction for a total amount of 15.2 billion tenge.
According to the Secretary of State, the measures taken contributed to Kazakhstan taking 25th place in the global index of the World Economic Forum on the share of women in business.
because it's mutually beneficial.
summer and winter versions of these protective supplies are designed to provide internal communication between members of the crew of armored vehicles and exit via external communication.
Chakrabarti noted the high level of cooperation achieved in the development of the agro-industrial complex of our country.
At the ECE meeting, this document was proposed to be discussed again in the advisory committee in connection with the reservation by Kazakhstan, the press service of the ECE reports.
we hope that this will affect not only education, but also the production sector and affect the economy of Kazakhstan, "he said.
According to M. Assemetov, in the implementation of the goals set for Kazakhstan, the updated parliament implements them ahead of schedule.
At the end of the meeting, Ayymbetov was familiarized with the exhibits exhibited in the school museum.
According to E. Khairov, in 2005-2015 222 billion dollars of foreign direct investment were attracted to the economy of Kazakhstan.
This year, Edward Prescott, Christopher Pissarides and Thomas Sargent and other scientists who received the Nobel Prize in economics will come to the summit.
Judging by how the Asian Games were held in Almaty, we are sure that this city will hold the Universiade at a high level.
According to him, the bank is a unique mechanism in the distribution of low-enriched uranium among participating countries.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan also considered the field of education.
The company also plans to begin construction of five more residential buildings in Petropavlovsk.
fourthly, the law clearly spells out the principle of autonomy and stability of the state apparatus when changing political public servants.
the order of the head of state to form a modern state apparatus completely coincides with the provisions of the concept of personnel policy of law enforcement agencies, implemented within the framework of institutional reforms, "he said.
it is also necessary to increase Kazakhstan's share in the creation of the space system, to increase ground-based domestic space infrastructure facilities, including a special design and technological bureau of space technology.
the project was implemented with budget funds, "the report said.
the metrology committee has long been cooperating with the Department of Standardization and Certification of the University.
in subsequent years, many innovative technologies for personnel management were implemented: the legal framework was updated, measures were taken to improve the system of selection of candidates, modern technologies for service were introduced with the provision of rules of meritocracy and transparency, and personnel certification.
we have prepared a roadmap on the introduction of compulsory health insurance. we have prepared a road map to explain the introduction of compulsory health insurance .
on the same day e. Idrissov visited the Shu secretariat and, together with the Foreign Ministers of China, Kyrgyzstan, as well as the Deputy Foreign Ministers of Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, took part in the opening ceremony of Shu Gaza.
In his report, Berdybek Saparbayev said that preparatory work for the expo-2017 is actively underway in the region.
firstly, the career of an administrative civil servant is formed taking into account his qualifications and accumulated experience.
because Kazakhstan will become one of the innovative centers for a green economy and will be an example of an alternative to renewable energy.
In addition, on all weekends in ice towns, guests and residents of the city held various concert programs: concerts, fairs, sports competitions, flash mobs, etc.
The central election commission conducts planned and phased preparations for the upcoming elections: methodological support, personnel complex. the central election commission systematically and consistently prepares for the upcoming elections .
If the head of state supports the proposal to renew the composition of the Majilis of the parliament, this will give impetus to the development of Kazakhstan.
Currently, more than 500 military personnel have been trained on the basis of the training center for specialists of the military police of the Akmola regional garrison, 1, "said Colonel Erik Kurbanov, deputy head of the main department of the military police of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
they protect their homeland!
when implementing this plan, one requirement will be presented - the use of Kazakhstan coal in the development of the project, "the mayor said.
we look forward to India and Pakistan joining the organization.
We urge all Kazakhstanis to support this initiative, "the statement said.
In particular, the participants of the action made furniture in two lounges and handed over certificates for full equipment in the amount of 450 thousand tenge, distributed to children toys, clothes, carpets, jewelry and books totaling about 1 million tenge.
The congress is attended by secretaries, members of the Central Committee, delegates of regional, city and district party committees and representatives of gardens.
students of the construction college will practice here with growth. students of ust-kamenogorsk college will have practice .
these funds will be used to support farmers. "
the first part of the epic "The Leader's Way - the Sky of Childhood" was presented at the gala festival.
es-145 simulator allows to work out crew actions in conditions of aircraft failure and adverse meteorological conditions. the trainer ec-145 gives an opportunity to practice actions of a crew , even in cases of failure of aviation equipment and adverse weather conditions .
we currently need elections, we need an update. at the moment the elections are very necessary .
here are collected specific theories and practical results of domestic companies. the first kazakh collection of business cases has collected the experience of 31 companies .
therefore, representatives of more than 100 nationalities of peace and harmony and 17 denominations that interact with each other live in our country, "said Mr.
This document will have a new trend in learning and teaching.
this will allow the public to monitor the effectiveness of law enforcement agencies.
updated content helps move to a five-day reading and reduces the number of textbooks.
foreign investors create the most favorable conditions for participation in privatization.
in connection with the synchronization of parliamentary meetings and early elections to maslikhats of all levels. Phoos, "this is not the first electoral campaign in which the elections are combined.
It is worth noting that Iran is the most significant country in the region.
we have a liberal tax policy.
this is every fifth project of projects launched as part of the industrialization program in the republic.
an example of a classic state in which Kazakhstan uses the traditional method of economic implementation.
At the 22nd session of the CCA, the head of state put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating a project "Big Country - Big Family."
During the meeting, wide-ranging issues of bilateral legal cooperation were discussed, such as expanding the legal framework, countering transnational organized crime, terrorism and extremism, cybercrime, drug trafficking, money laundering obtained illegally.
Temporary Representative of Kazakhstan for Armenia Kanat Khasenov drew the attention of the conference participants to the fact that it is taking place on the eve of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this means that there is a grotesque trend, which, unfortunately, has the opposite effect.
According to the deputy chairman of the Jewish cultural, educational and socio-political society "Alef," on Gratitude Day there is a lot of meaning.
according to the fund, an additional effect will be obtained from savings in procurement costs.
this protocol is aimed at creating an information security system, preventing destructive information impacts and emergencies in the information sphere, as well as creating a legal basis for cooperation between special services and law enforcement agencies of the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, "said K. Abdrazakov.	the protocol is aimed at the formation of the information security system , the prevention of destructive information impacts and emergency situations in the field of information , as well as the establishment of a legal framework for cooperation of special services and law enforcement bodies of the - members of the organization of the collective security treaty , - deputy chairman of the national security committee of kazakhstan kabdulkarim abdikazimov said presenting the bill .
During the reporting period, the company produced 14.5 million tons of ore.
During the meeting, the parties agreed to develop cooperation on a wide range of issues.
Heads of State also exchanged views on the current spectrum of the international agenda.
Tell us about pets, what kind of monkeys belong to, what are their characters?
for example, people can see monuments in their pocket with their own eyes and head for this world.
All the structures of the assembly, ethnocultural associations, the whole people of Kazakhstan as a whole were involved in it, "concluded ni.
political parties should represent competent, business and conscientious candidates in the interests of the country, who can understand the tasks of the agenda.
According to the head of the construction department of the region, Salikhan Polatov, the state pays special attention to social facilities, the head of the department noted that in 2009-2014, as part of the program "Construction of 100 schools, 100 hospitals" in the region, 48 facilities were completed and completed (schools-39, hospitals-9).
four years I served as PRC ambassador to this country.
At the same time, the national plan should pay special attention to the reform of "unity and identity."
To continue the inter-parliamentary dialogue, Tokayev invited his colleague to visit Kazakhstan.
Since March 5, 2014, by a resolution of the Majilis of the Parliament, he was appointed a member of the Constitutional Council, "the chairman of the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
- what direction do you prefer modern art and for what?
all conditions for the work of the commission have been created, equipped with equipment.
a civilizational and ethno-cultural crisis is essential for eeo and eec.	in my view , it is a barometer of state relations ,  a.bashmakov has said .
The prize in the field of science and technology is awarded twice a year.
presentation in the state language, answers to questions on the video.
we clearly understand where there are bad places and how to eliminate them.
an open State accountable to society
for this, we have all the opportunities, enough resources and people, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the plenary session, the deputies of the lower house considered issues on the preparation of the final discussion of the bill "On the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia on the prevention of double tax evasion and tax evasion."
distinguished consuls exchanged information on their work experience, supported the achievement of synergy through systemic communication in their works.
I hope that the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will support this initiative of the deputies, "said Kh. Baltaeva.
Where and where is the new flow of refugees fleeing the conflict?
- Graduates with technical items are in great demand in the labour market.
linguistics courses were held in the regional center and six districts.
World Bank global needs and proposals.
if for political reasons he does not want to turn to the nuclear powers for uranium, then in Kazakhstan this can be done by assuming responsibility for nuclear materials in all disciplines.
under this contract, the UK received one of its pavilions at Expo 2017 and determined where they will be located.
The parties cited agriculture, transport and communications as priority areas of cooperation between our countries.
It is noted that the trade turnover of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Indonesia in 2014 amounted to 39.2 million km.
Given how the funds available in the National Fund and investments in the private sector will flow, it is necessary to consider the sectors of economic growth.
it is not produced in Almaty region.
Given the positive experience of cooperation with the ecu/diakb mission, we express our readiness to work closely with ecu/diakb experts to convey our opinion on the electoral campaign, express confidence that we listen and take into account our opinion, "said the head of the Central Election Commission.
"kaznex invest" is the body of the working ombudsman, "said K. Pocket.
If we implement these plans, we can overcome the crisis by raising the state level economically and politically.
President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin noted that Kazakhstan is successfully developing as a democratic, multinational country with a diversified powerful economy, has a worthy authority in the international arena, and also makes an important contribution to solving pressing issues on the international agenda.
the leaders of these working groups today answer questions, "said Dariga Nazarbayeva, speaking at a press conference.
I believe that such an exhibition is very appropriate in connection with the upcoming spring holiday, "said J. Taimagambetov.
About 300 firms and companies from 14 regions, cities of Almaty and the capital of the country put their products on the territory of the trading house.
According to the results of the inventory of the permit system, 52 permits for hazardous activities and 45 permits that are not regulated by the international obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, respectively, are not reduced.
for example, since 2006, the share of women in business has increased from 38 to 50 per cent.
To date, more than 600 civil servants have already been trained.
- Can Karachun holiday become an official holiday in Hungary and Kazakhstan in the future?
According to the Minister, growth indicators are due to more than 60 projects for the first five-year period of the industrialization program.
in his opinion, every point of the message, every detail, you can make sure that it is made for the reserve of Kazakhstanis.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the tense geopolitical situation around Turkey will have an impact on our country.
During the visit within the framework of the seminar, the heads of the national commission met with the Governor of the region, who discussed issues of political advancement of women in the region.
According to the Commissioner of Expo 2017, the largest company in the country "cmi group" showed interest in participating in the exhibition.
our system is engaged in international advertising, holds exhibitions.
a policy document was adopted today.
the preparation of each company is exceptional.
made a profound decision.
The 25th anniversary of our independence is approaching, over 25 years there have been many changes, one of which is the early elections to the Majilis. this year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence of the country .
Speaking about important issues at the global level, K. Zhakupov called for supporting the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan to create a global system to counter international terrorism and extremism under the UN motto and hold a forum "Islam against terrorism."
In accordance with the requirements of the constitution, the president made a report to the Senate on the appointment of the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that more than 240 delegates take part in the council of foreign investors, including representatives of foreign companies, large Kazakhstani investors.
The main goals of the charter are to strengthen energy security, promote energy efficiency, minimize environmental damage, develop an effective energy market and create a favorable investment climate.
In general, the implementation of these 2 projects will attract 5.2 billion tenge to the region's economy.
according to him, the creation of ahco is the next step towards creating a favorable investment climate in the country.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the agreement provides for the identification and return of persons who have violated the conditions of entry and stay in the territory of both States.
In this regard, we raised the issue of reducing the established high excise taxes on our goods to the Uzbek side, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
Last year, the volume of output amounted to 4.2 trillion tenge, an increase of 21.1% compared to the same period in 2014.
I encourage all those who are still thinking about participating in the legalization of property to seize this opportunity.
we are ready to work in the future with the French state through the brotherhood.
they describe various programmes to support women's entrepreneurship.
There was general confidence that the fight against terrorism and extremism required the joint efforts of the entire international community.
In this regard, the established working group reviews and analyses expert councils.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the country can offer a wide package of advantages for investors, providing for investment subsidies, stability of legislation, tax benefits.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan sincerely congratulates you on Defender of the Fatherland Day!
The procedure of interaction between the competent authorities of the EAEU member states when introducing temporary sanitary, veterinary, sanitary and quarantine phytosanitary measures was also considered.
rubber bedding, tiles and coatings without seams will fit into sports and playgrounds, attractions and play areas.
on the other hand, they leave the international organization and still do nothing at home, or do not participate in EXPO in other countries.
the participants of the meeting paid attention to the transport and transit potential of the two states, and also touched upon the topics of trade and economic integration.
allows real-time collection and analysis of information from mechanisms on smart mine devices and equipment, remote control and regulation of volumes of chemical reagents used in uranium production.
in addition, the company intends to create a new model of Kazakhstani meat and ensure export to Europe and Russia.
On January 20 of this year, the head of state signed a decree on the early abolition of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections of deputies of the lower chamber.
Chairman of the commission, Doctor of Economics, Aktobe Regional State University named after K. Zhubanova, Professor Halel Khusain.
President of Kazakhstan N.A. According to Nazarbayev's decree of January 20, 2016 "About abolition of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation and purpose of early elections of deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan", on March 20 the current year there will take place early elections of deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of RK and the next elections of deputies of maslikhat of all levels.
The head of state set specific goals for us, outlined the directions of development, expressed confidence to all of us.	also , the director of stepnogorsk orphanage № 4 expressed her support for the initiatives of the head of state , which will bring kazakhstan to a new level of development .	0,79
Kazakhstan has thus become more moderate because it has taken an advanced step.	that 's why kazakhstan has become so successful .	0,79
Is it dangerous to live with a monkey?	- is it safe to live with monkeys ?	0,79
The former head of the department thanked the head of state for his confidence in labor in the government.	the former head of the agency yerbolat dossayev expressed gratitude to the president for giving credence to him during the whole work in the government .	0,79
There will also be many Italian tourists, "concluded the president of the World Club of Expo Commissioners. Rosso.
moreover, they allow us to become one of the thirty leader countries of our Kazakh dream - in the XXI century.
The head of the region also familiarized the guests with the investment opportunities of Aktobe region.
The parties noted the need to expand the legal framework in the field of law enforcement. the parties noted the need to expand the juridical base of cooperation in the field of law enforcement .
The competition was attended by more than 78 representatives of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, the United States of America and Great Britain.
In turn, the Austrian diplomat expressed confidence that Kazakhstan, as the leading country in the region, will hold the "expo-2017" at a high level.
Recall, on November 27 of this year, as part of the implementation of instructions within the framework of the legislation signed by the head of state, the action "Caravan of Charity" will be held.
rules determine the goals and objectives of the Eurasian technological platform, directions of activity.
all schools of the region will be covered by single textbooks on Kazakh and English.
now we will accompany investors until entering the Kazakh market and the actual implementation of projects.
The Mayor of the capital noted that in the event of an emergency, it is necessary to update the action plans of all city services, which should work mobilized.
38 objects and securities worth 1044.4 million tenge were legalized.
economic sanctions and the front of trade are also normal.
there are many directions, but it is worth noting that this year we have made a pilot discipline, and it will work in several areas.
- Protection of students' health;
potential investor - a voluntary participant in the project develops the concept and sends it to the state agency for consideration. an investor - participant develops the concept and brings it to the public authority .
I think that this will not affect the results and results of the elections in any way, "he said.
many major events, summits and forums are held in the country.
As I said, most of the fires occur in the residential sector, where people die and are injured.
the United Arab Emirates ranks 1st among the Arab countries of the Gulf in terms of trade with Kazakhstan.
In this regard, I want to note that the right to vote in Kazakhstan, electoral practice have changed to the right side, that is, positive changes have occurred.
at the meeting of the board of holders, a draft plan for the development of acts on the implementation of the main areas of industrial cooperation within the union was also approved.
Do rabbits need special care?
He also noted that the future of each state depends on its youth, on their goals.
By March 31, all Kazakh non-governmental organizations must submit their reports on their services for inclusion in the list of banks. now all non-governmental organizations of kazakhstan must submit reports on their activities to be included in the list of ngos .
this approach makes the fight against corruption even more difficult, "said K. Zhumashev.
As a result of the negotiations, an agreement was reached on strengthening cooperation within the framework of the Kazakh-Lithuanian intergovernmental commission, the business council, the working group on the development of transport and tourism, in order to expand the bilateral legal framework, as well as expand relations between relevant ministries and departments, between the business environments of the two countries.
D.Nazarbayeva also noted that the next, XIV Eurasian Media Forum will be held in the capital in one of the venues of the expo-2017 exhibition.
Following the results of joint work, foreign investors considered several proposals: firstly, the conduct of crimes for tax violations, in particular, the removal of criminal liability in the event of voluntary payment of taxes and fines.
About 29 thousand people from 50 remote settlements received specialized medical care as part of the action of the My Kazakhstan train.
Speaking at the presentation, the Vice President of Logistics "ktzh" uk "kanat alpysbayev noted that at present there are great opportunities for sharing the Kazakh-Chinese terminal in the port of Lianyungan, as well as the" lead-east gate. "
strengthened it with the real successes of the Kazakh economy, the growth of national wealth and the well-being of the people.
the main problem is that the analysis and storage of liquid radioactive waste (recovery), established by the subcontractor "medical technician," did not lead to the project.
Since the beginning of last year, about 2.4 557 memoranda have been signed covering 105 million jobs.
It should be noted that the design bureau named after the king abdullah (caddb) is an independent state institution of the Jordanian armed forces.
Speaking at the meeting, Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan k.ualiyev noted the importance of the organized civil forum in order to form the historical consciousness of the people of Kazakhstan.
The public council included executive secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of structural divisions of the ministry, representatives of the party.
sarzhanov kairat asaniyazovich appointed ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the federal republic of Brazil;
despite all the difficulties that our economy faced due to the negative impact of all global crises, we have always increased the well-being of Kazakhstanis.
According to the Russian political scientist, Kazakhstan has taken timely anti-crisis measures.
The party "Nұr Otan" for the second year in a row as part of the project "Happy Childhood" gives a festive mood to children from low-income and large families.
By 2020, the transition to a 12-year education system will be ensured.
the initiative of deputies to hold early elections to the Majilis of Parliament is a socio-political event. the initiative to hold snap elections of the deputies in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels is a very important political event in the life of our country .
According to the survey, the average annual growth in gross productivity of Asian and Pacific developing countries' inputs declined by 2.8 per cent, down 1 per cent from 2008-2014 in 2000-2007.
this is a clear system of harmonization with all processes in the economy. i believe it is more efficient to invite the experts in kazakhstan for a year , two or three .
The development plan in these areas will soon be submitted to the maslikhat of the region and approved at the maslikhat session.
among the projects are cement, nickel and solid waste processing plants with the participation of foreign investments.
as a representative of a civil alliance, as a citizen, as a member of society, I support this initiative. i support the decision .
the news agency conducted a survey that Kazakhstanis are thinking about holding early elections.
According to the results of the election program, the head of state spoke about the reform of the state and the Kazakh public.
now we turn to the question.
some think that oil prices will rise, the issue is not resolved.
In addition, I urge everyone to lead a healthy lifestyle, "said Senior Sergeant of the Guard 68665 a/b Arslan Serkebaev.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, Kazakhstanis need to change mentality and psychology to support domestic producers.
We expect that the work carried out over 1-1.5 years will give its results.
During the period from January 20 to February 19, 2016, 13,898 materials were published in the media related to the general election topics, as well as the election activities of candidates from parties and party lists.
The international document is an important step towards strengthening the Kazakh-British partnership in the field of combating crime, ensuring the rule of law.
In this direction, work is underway at a high level, "he said.
on the ekyu\diakb Internet resource, the mission of diakb\ekyu in the commission was announced: 400 short-term observers and 36 long-term observers. the website of the osce / odihr published the informational message , which specifies the mission of the osce / odihr in the commission : 400 short-term and 36 - long-term observers .
in this regard, I believe that the decision to dissolve the meeting was taken in a timely manner.
During business negotiations, he outlined the main areas of cooperation in the manufacturing industry in the field of milk production, oil and fat, crop production, drip irrigation of livestock, and consumer services.
The Ministry is faced with the task of creating all the necessary conditions for the implementation of the constitutional rights of Kazakhstani citizens abroad to participate in the elections, "the Minister said and gave specific instructions on the organization of the relevant preparatory work in anticipation of voting in the elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will be held on March 20.
the election campaign began after the adoption of yesterday's decree. the election campaign was begun yesterday after the adoption of the decree .
Also in the service of the population are advanced passenger locomotives kz-4at at a speed of 200 km/h.
We see that the annual influx of foreigners to Kazakhstan is not exhausted.
now is the birthday of technical specialties, science and innovation.
before its launch, we could process gold on the ore path.
In addition, each visitor can take part in various competitions and national games, as well as enjoy national Tatar and Bashkir dishes and see the national struggle "kurash."
Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
Young local specialists will be involved in the implementation of the solar power plant project.
As part of the first step, amendments and additions to the kha law were made.
he expressed his readiness to provide journalists with the necessary information on election day.
for many years he worked in the prosecutor's office of the city of Kyzylorda.
thanks to the implementation of this program, Kazakhstan's independence will be strengthened, new guidelines will be identified.
it will consider a set of measures to improve the investment climate and work closely with investors and transnational companies.
about a third of the republican grain, regardless of the territory of the region.
thus, in the state law, it will be necessary to adjust the full list of permits and notifications to serve the business necessary to carry out activities.
Institute of Rural Science, National Engineering Academy of Kazakhstan, Institute of Economics of Kazakhstan presented a number of reports on the transition to economic aspects.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations will be carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016, "said T. Okhlopkova.
this organization plans to develop effectively to member states agriculture, rural areas, food security and biotechnology.
assistance under this law will be in a new format.
clashes in Syria and Iraq showed a lack of unity between Muslims.
The measures taken by President N.A. Nazarbayev require a lot of legislative work: the revision and adjustment of the current legislation, the introduction of new laws, and the implementation of the anti-crisis plan. all proposed measures require a great deal of legislative work : revision and correction of the current legislation , drafting and enactment of new laws necessary for the implementation of the anti-crisis plan .
today we examined the greenhouse economy of the Changji Hui Autonomous Okrug.
priority is given to Europe.
then they will involve civil and administrative affairs.
in addition, in his speech, the producer uses state support, such as cheaper diesel fuel, subsidies for herbicides, fertilizers, subsidies for investment contributions.
Of course, the domestic gross product of our countries has decreased, and trade has slowed down.
due to the low result of anti-corruption measures.
international organizations can pay special attention to the current electoral trend in Kazakhstan.
Last year, presidential elections were held, most of the population voted for the head of state.
a new code of ethics for judges would be adopted at the Seventh Congress of Judges.
Currently, the orchestra is replenishing its repertoire with works of Kazakh national music and world classics. currently , the orchestra adds to the repertoire of kazakh folk music and world classics .
Among the guests of the event were representatives of the scientific and expert environment, the Kazakh diaspora and the garden.
the unemployment rate was 5.1 per cent of the economically active population.
engineering networks are being built throughout the expo, "the report said.
Having read the current message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the people, I felt confidence and patience. i 've felt today the confidence and calm after acquaintance with the address of our president .
I urge Bulgarian business to come, invest. we are ready to benefit you partners throughout the region, including those regions where Russia, Uzbekistan, China.
I have great respect for today's composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, s.tuyakbayev reported on the work done within the program as a whole in the region.
We hope that the construction of the plant will bring cooperation between Kazakhstan and Canada in the nuclear industry to a new level and will give a new impetus to our strategic partnership, "he said during a speech at the business council.
senators supported joint projects of Kazakhstan and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development aimed at improving the effectiveness of the government.
it is also planned to submit a list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of Parliament.
therefore, much attention will be paid to the rest and public safety of the capital.
Kazakhstan's agricultural potential is high, and I think that Kazakhstan can abandon these goals and coordinating roles in central Asia, "said V. Rakhmanin.
one of us must follow the principle of "for all" and "for all."
a three-stage system for the selection of specialists has also been introduced.
ethnographic exhibition of the heritage of the great steppe will be presented to guests and spectators of the city for a month.
gulshara abdykalikova thanked the President of Kazakhstan for supporting the idea of ​ ​ creating an Islamic organization for food security, whose headquarters are located in the capital.
Young specialists, as teachers, doctors serving for tomorrow, should not move from apartment to apartment and experience difficulties. the state is working for the benefit of the teachers , doctors and other young professionals .
the second class received the qualification of a military pilot major nurball saparbayev and Ivan gavrilko.
6 . six speed meters are located in the zone opposite to the metro shopping center located along the capital-Karaganda highway, between the ring bridge and the village of Michurino;
the approved project is implemented in food, chemical, woodworking, light industry and construction.
attraction of anchor rocks will allow to create centers of technological development.
during the event. Yakupbaeva paid great attention to the main issues related to business development: long-term project coordination, state support measures and guaranteed sale.
at all stages on the day of the election, as well as on the day of voting, a system of public control will be launched.
On the agenda of the forum is a discussion of topical issues of international cooperation in the field of deterring terrorism and extremism, preventing the spread of extremist ideologies using information technologies.
the commissioner familiarized his interlocutor with the preparations for the exhibition in the capital.
the volume of construction and installation works is 12.5% higher than last year.
strict supervision of it is an important state task, the implementation of which is directly advocated by the Accounts Committee.
according to him, Senegal is forced to develop alternative energy sources, since the country does not have its own gasoline.
It should be noted that the expo is not only an effective platform for developing and discussing proposals on energy issues, but also an opportunity to attract tourists to the country.
1,174,699 square meters of housing were built through private construction, which is 1.9 times more than last year.
secondly, the law contains norms that spell out the rules for celebrating the day of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main indicator of economic development is total output.
Head of the regional akim's office, head of the regional department of the Ministry of Public Service Affairs of Kazakhstan - chairman of the ethics council b.b.bekzhanov took part in the open day.
the cement company agreed with the educational institution to train specialists in "production mechanics," "said Sergey Bayev, head of the enterprise.
this is my great democratic achievement in 25 years of our independence.
Special attention was paid to the participation of Kazakhstani enterprises in the modernization of the Moldovan railway, issues such as the supply of modern locomotives, freight and passenger cars, learned rails and car ingots were discussed.
today we begin work on the employment of these children.
I am talking about the socially vulnerable level of the population, we constantly helped those who need help, but social justice should not be inflamed, because social payments are not only additional pressure on the budget, but also additional pressure on every working Kazakhstani who sends income to the state through taxes, "the head of state said.
It is worth noting that in recent years the volume of housing construction in the raw region has increased sharply.
according to him, Kazakhstan business is interested in creating joint ventures with Italy.
Heads of State exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda and measures taken in the field of combating terrorism and extremism.
This year, by order of the department, 4 television projects were created in the media with the aim of teaching the language, popularizing the language of management and paperwork of the state language, interethnic harmony and Kazakhstani patriotism, as well as 1 section.
State of the environment and use of natural resources.
It is under these programs that our state works today.
this global strategy should define a coherent and responsible nation's response to the virus of war and conflict.
overall, industrial production declined by 1.6 per cent, mainly due to a decline in mining.
During the meeting, Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that our ultimate goal is to ensure peace and stability, the long-term development of the state and society.
warranty conditions include: violation of the terms of repair of housing facilities; misuse of funds; insufficient builders.
Development of a road map for the introduction of compulsory health insurance in the Ministry of Health and Social Development.
the development of today's Kazakhstan and the prosperity of our economy were able to attract the attention of a powerful state in the world. the address of president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev takes a special place among many policy documents addressed to the people annually .
According to him, early elections of deputies of the Majilis, elected by party lists, are scheduled for March 20, 2016, and elections of deputies of the Majilis - for March 21, 2016.
Governor of Almaty region in his speech reported to Nursultan Nazarbayev on the main indicators of socio-economic development of the region and plans for the coming period.
Recall that at the founding session of the General Assembly, the candidacy of Kazakhstan for the chairmanship of the akiu was supported.
the role of roads connecting border zones is very important for the further development of trade and economic cooperation in the future.
In the address, the head of state explained in detail all the issues.	it saves time and , of course , the budget ,  she said .
Once again congratulating all of you, I wish our country calm and well-being, health and success to all on the way to great work.
Deputy Chairman of the Board of Atameken of the Republic of Kazakhstan Tulemis Sachans will take part in the press conference.
Development of vocational education.
The Speaker of the Senate stressed that there is no doubt that Kazakhstan will hold open and fair elections that meet all national laws and international requirements.
Also during the event, the embassy presented the topic "Investment policy of Kazakhstan and opportunities for German companies."
In order to stimulate athletes, a government decree approved the amount of monetary remuneration to champions and prize-winners. in order to encourage the athletes the government of kazakhstan has approved the payment of cash rewards for champions , winners in the international sports competitions .
already at this time, we have achieved tremendous results in its implementation, even despite the negative impact of the global crisis.
The Environment and Climate Change Meeting Group of Almaty provided an opportunity for joint work on adaptation, which has recently been changing in climate, conservation of biological diversity, sustainable use of natural resources, as well as the realization of existing potential in the field of renewable energy.
election observers, that is, representatives of different spheres - political science, sociology - conducted research at each polling station. it is no secret that during the voting the experts of different directions : the political science , sociology conduct studies at the polling stations , the exit pools .
in particular, the Kazakh meat processing service company and Muhammad Khaligri LLP signed an agreement on the export of Kazakhstani meat in the amount of $30 million.
in accordance with these measures, the authorities attach great importance to maintaining political and social stability.	the privatization list includes 65 companies , including  kazmunaigas " and " air astana , " " kazakhtelecom , " the state railway company , " samruk-energo " and " kazatomprom . "
In addition, according to the veteran, the holding of early elections of the leader of the nation is characterized by two important factors.
This program will allow passengers to choose the optimal route, get information about important city buses, control the movement of buses online.
a powerful economy, a reliable political system.
We want to make a country with such a future, "the head of state said.
space technology will play a very important role in the future.
fifth, the implementation of a program of successful privatization, as well as through the financial market, will require a highly liquid capital market, "he said.
this is the first major two-day visit of the Kazakh business community after the lifting of sanctions from the Islamic Republic.
in addition, he strengthened tax and competitiveness issues.
We do not supply food from abroad, our products are represented by mineral fertilizers.
producers of the two regions analyzed the course of import substitution, as well as the positive impact on the dynamics of industrial development of the two neighboring regions.
the experience of eidu countries shows that identity and unity can be based only on specific factors - meritocracy, effective work of the professional state apparatus, ensuring the rule of law, economic growth, transparent work of an accountable state.
thanks to ethnocultural organizations on this day.
the prosperity of transnational terrorist organizations and regional conflicts create new problems that must be taken into account, "the article says.
a meeting was held with the Ministry of the Interior, today a meeting is taking place in the Constitutional Council and the Prosecutor General's Office.
As part of the implementation of step 53, work is being carried out to bring the antimonopoly legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in line with best international practice and international standards.
this document is aimed at the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Optimization and Automation of Public Services in the Social and Labor Sphere."
here teachers teach children a special program, in depth study Kazakh, Russian, English in connection with the trilingual policy of the state.
fifthly, the institution of private bailiffs will be further developed by phasing out public bailiffs.
a favorable investment climate has caused an increase in the investment attractiveness of the agricultural sector of the republic.
According to the school director, we will achieve development and support of our country thanks to unity and stability.
many peasants have fears that the land will become the object of speculation for those who have money. many farmers worry that the land can become the subject of speculation for those people who have money .
Kazakhstan has done a lot of work, and most importantly, Kazakhstan has achieved success in improving its financial situation. kazakhstan has achieved success in the people 's welfare level .
first of all, the visit to space of cosmonaut Ayymbetov, which took place on September 2-12, 2015.
according to him, Kazakhstan lags behind raw materials dependence and relies on labor reserves.
In addition, it is envisaged that information on orphans will be brought to justice in case of late transmission.
The sides also exchanged views on the development of bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture.
the local police service consists of district police inspectors and their assistants, juvenile inspectors and "school inspectors," employees of environmental police units, reception and distribution and special reception authorities, road patrol police, as well as units for the protection of women from violence.
To date, more than 100 observers have completed training. nowadays more than 100 observers have been trained .
Thanks to the program of the Department of Anthropology, supervised by Taylor, researchers were able to work with various techniques: creating a 3D model, digital processing, image archiving, etc.
The agreement was signed on January 21, 2016 in Davos, Switzerland, as part of the World Economic Forum.
its main goal is to increase the professional development of the financial and tax administrations of the EAEU states in the field of tax legislation and in the field of tax administration on the most pressing and problematic issues.
More than 80 of our experts are in Iran.
It is worth noting that at present, young people studying in master's degree, doctoral studies often visit libraries.
For the successful holding of this competition, it was instructed to prepare paligons, educational institutions, places of residence of military personnel by July 1, "said Timur Abishev, head of the combat training department of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
communication satellite control system.
firstly, we want to expand the sown area, secondly, to increase efficiency.
the purpose of this project is to increase the capacity of the airport.	we expect that the main work will be completed by the end of 2016 ,  mamin said .
it is necessary to take a free place in this side and begin to gradually develop.
there are open examples, hospitality offers an affordable price.
if everything is implemented according to plan, no problems will arise, "he said.
According to akim, the mechanism of public-private partnership is actively used.
secondly, it is necessary to know which profession in Kazakhstan society, thirdly, to determine which profession is in social protection by the state.
Most importantly, the role of aquaculture in legal proceedings has increased. the role of the legal profession increased .
the Swiss began work on the internal maintenance of their pavilions.
the text of laws is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
Iran is a priority.
According to the Mayor's Office of the city, the project used energy-saving technologies that save funds for lighting.
What are your plans?
During the meeting, a number of issues were discussed and a lot of information was received.
According to the guest, the number of companies participating in expo-2017 is still unknown.
oil transportation through the main pipeline reached 102,750 million cubic meters.
In turn, the competition "The best measuring instrument of the year" was created by the Kazakhstan Institute of Metrology.
because last summer was rainy, there were no hot days.
when they all come together, they will give excellent advantages to our one nation.
it is based on the labour standards of the international labour organization and eidu.
including a.peshkov.
Including the construction of a kindergarten in the village of Imantau, 4 boiler houses in the Akkayyn district.
in these difficult times, all institutions of power in the country must work clearly and effectively.
Deputy Governor of the North Kazakhstan region M. Mankeev voiced the idea of ​ ​ creating a transport and logistics center on the border of Kazakhstan and Russia on the model of Khorgos.
They also organize a terrorist attack around the world, collect new members and create their own media resources.
Employment Act, aimed at improving the employment system;
During the seminar, teachers exchanged experience, held an interesting master class, read informative reports.
During the visit, the Secretary General of the Cabinet of Ministers of Malaysia - Ali Hamsa, Secretary General of the Ministry of Energy, Green Technologies and Water Resources - Commissioner of the Malaysian part of Expo 2017, met with local scientific and business circles.
therefore, of course, support from government agencies in this matter is required.	the parties , aware of this principle , will have the opinion that it is better to go to the arbitration chamber rather than in the state court .	0,80
the specificity of the world economy in the first round: problems and prospects. "
- The Government of Kazakhstan is taking a number of anti-crisis measures.
Based on the experience of the 7 Asian Winter Games, the visa regime for participants of the Universiade 2017 will be reduced. based on the experience , gained during the 7th winter asian games , a visa regime for the participants of the universiade-2017 will be simplified .
If Kazakhstan emerges from the economic crisis, this will be a good example in order to find a solution in a difficult situation for neighboring Kazakhstan, "said A. Zhekshenkulov.
he noted that the new form of assistance will be divided into 2 types - unconditional and conditional monetary assistance.
Our goal is to prepare specialists after higher and higher education for training in three languages. at the level of higher and postgraduate education , we have set a task to train personnel able to teach in three languages .
of these, more than 500 specialists in the detection of early malignancies, 1,500 doctors from tuberculosis, 225 doctors in the tactics of trained patients with acute coronary syndrome and 310 secondary medical workers.
To date, the issue of domestic waste management is an urgent topic in improving the environment, implementing the concept of the development of the "green economy" and the waste management system.
Happy Women's Day to you! "said Mr. Hertz.
the President analyzed the difficult situation in the world economy and geopolitics, demonstrating a direct way to successfully overcome global challenges. the president analyzed the situation in the global economy and geopolitics , and chosen the path of success in overcoming global challenges .
in addition, the act created a separate department to attract investments in the region, including in the industrial territory of the city of Aktobe.
unity and concerted action support new economic shocks.
The head of the Central Election Commission thanked Mr. Flets for the work of the ecu/diak mission to monitor the extraordinary elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the proposed recommendations.
"I sincerely believe in the dream of a world rid of nuclear weapons," the President of Kazakhstan concluded.
in regional, district, city newspapers, the boundaries of polling stations and districts were approved, "said G. Kapakov.
thirdly, criminal proceedings must strike a balance in the courts, including in the pretrial period, between prosecution and defence.
having familiarized himself with the role of kha, he became interested in a special attitude towards various ethnocultural groups.
In addition, the head of the department noted that 3.7 thousand students will study in master classes, including the Kazakh National Kurmangazy Conservatory, the Kazakh National University of Arts, etc.
The head of state stressed that the international community should develop measures to stimulate the transition of national energy and industry from different countries to low-enriched fuels.
in the main Thai city of Bangkok there are three types of wrestling, the championship on Greco-Roman, free-style and female wrestling.
According to N. Nazarbayev, the regions should partner with each other.
Tugzhanov familiarized foreign guests with the history of creation, constitutional status, assignments and work with the deputies of the assembly.
the Minister of Social Protection and Labour of Lithuania, Algimanta Pabadinskene, and the Vice-Minister of Labour of the Republic of Korea, Zhahung, discussed measures taken to improve the stability of the labor market in these countries.
Sergei Sidorsky informed the participants of the event about the formation and implementation of integration mechanisms to ensure industrial and agro-industrial policy in the Eurasian Economic Union.
the global economic crisis continues.
new standards of preschool education in the field of education are being introduced, "he said.
Nurzhanov noted that geological exploration of gold, polymetal, copper and chromium has been founded in Kazakhstan.
As the head of the region noted, the main achievement of the year is the repair of a road of regional importance, with a length of 170 kilometers.
Considering the systematic position of the Republic of Kazakhstan that a political and diplomatic solution is the only correct way to resolve the situation around the Iranian nuclear program, also significantly strengthens regional and international security, makes an important contribution to the formation of Iranian relations with the international community, Aware also of the historic importance of the adoption of the agreement, creating favorable conditions for the further development of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iran, Kazakhstan "six" and the Iranian joint commission decided to satisfy.
today it is necessary to make special requirements for state labor inspectors, since the number of enterprises violating the requirements of labor legislation is growing daily, "said D. Nazarbayev.
many people with higher education, including those who cannot find work.
During the meeting, the participants noted that the CEC did all the work to hold the upcoming elections on a free, competitive and open basis.
According to him, today one of the main tasks is to change the legal form of health care, education, culture and sports.
But now my family lives in a new apartment.
every year there is an increase in the number of graduates that Kazakhstan does not pass.	according to the information of the ministry , in kazakhstan the number of graduates who fail the unt is increased every year .	0,80
honey-shymbulak. "
According to H. Perez, these figures indicate that bilateral trade and investment are behind the real potential of the economy, and there is an even larger platform for increasing investment.
therefore, it would be much more effective to deeply process grain crops in Kazakhstan.
at the same time, the initiative of the deputies is correct.
The job fair gives applicants the opportunity to interview potential employers and learn about the possibility of retraining and mastering a new profession.
136,745 or 5.2% of the total number of services provided through the state corporation, of which 224,748 (8.6%) services were provided electronically, the press service said.
During the ceremony, the parties noted that Kazakh-Hungarian relations have reached a new level in all areas of cooperation.
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that Kazakhstan is implementing a large-scale "beam road" infrastructure program aimed at the formation and development of transport and logistics infrastructure.
first of all, the experience of such industries as textile, food production, mechanical engineering, the financial sector, insurance companies is being tested, "the expert suggested.
early presidential elections were held to rehabilitate and prevent social pressure.
According to aibolat Kushkumbayev, in his article the head of state mentioned honey "eternal country."
the beginning of the next meeting of the commission with a meeting in the regions.
The Head of State drew attention to the importance of fulfilling the instructions in the regions, so the akims of the regions need to use all available resources to monitor the effective implementation of the allocated funds.
in total, the preparation of documents, the examination and the holding of competitions take more than 300 working days.
In November 2015, we opened the office of the Bulgarian-Kazakh Chamber of Commerce.
and if he's healthy, he's not that dangerous.
only by uniting can we solve vital issues.
in Kazakhstan, the trial of participants has been working for a long time.
the new composition of the meeting should correspond to the structure of society. 20 years ago social environment of kazakhstan was absolutely different .
Within the framework of the visit, the Kazakh delegation is scheduled to meet on April 12 with the Secretary of the Political and Legal Commission of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, a member of the politburo of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and jianzhong.
observers are given the opportunity to freely familiarize themselves with the work of polling stations, communicate with members of election commissions, representatives of political parties and local executive bodies, "said E. Sloboda.
process of selection of international specialties
Summing up the meeting, he noted that the area where the unemployment rate continues to be high, it is necessary to intensify work in cities, oblige them to carry out the planned plans for 2016 qualitatively and on time, and also personally monitor this work.
as well as the role of the President of Kazakhstan in the formation of Kazakh statehood, the policy of the leader of the nation and Kazakhstan, the political philosophy of eurasization n. Nazarbayeva.
Another important point is the creation of workplaces. Another point is the creation of jobs.
In turn, the National University of Defense named after the first President of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation annually receives students of Pakistani military colleges arriving in the Republic of Kazakhstan with a presentation trip.
This year it is planned to put into operation a multidisciplinary hospital with 300 places in the city of Taraz, as well as 2 polyclinics in standard and disputed areas.
According to him, the main task of the center is to create comfortable conditions for school graduates who will pass exams.
The iid websites contain an additional section on the activities of these advisory bodies, "said M. Kogamov.
in accordance with the law on the nomination of candidates for deputies of the majilis, elected by the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, belongs to the council of the assembly.
Meeting the guests, the head doctor a. Maimakov familiarized himself with the life of the hospital and reported on the work done.
ratification of the denomination will affect the policy pursued in Kazakhstan in the priority area of child protection. ratification of the convention corresponds to the current policy of kazakhstan on the child protection .
It should be noted that the People's Academy of "green technologies" will create a practical dialogue platform for discussing reducing the burden of enterprises on the budget and mobilizing budget funds.
The main goal of the government is to ensure tax transparency. the main task of the government is to improve transparency in the tax sphere , only in such a way every person will be interested to pay taxes fully .
In this regard, South Kazakhstan farmers receive a sufficient amount of water during the growth period, he said.
the company produces innovative products, such as a thermal imager, optical systems.
We hope that this reform will make it possible to intensify our activities and achieve great success, improve the reliability of our spacecraft and rocket carriers, and also provide great opportunities for promoting business in the space industry.
The Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan this year will continue to work on the development of these services by transferring them in the form of outsourcing or private structures.
According to the vice-speaker, Kazakhstan is ready to support Latvia's candidacy to the UN in 2026-2027.
The construction of the plant will begin in the Osakarovsky district this year.
As noted, by the decree of the Head of State, the Bakenuly Sarinzhipov was relieved of the post of Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job.
another investor plans to build a large industrial park.
The forum will also be attended by members of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
the head of the ekyu/diakb mission, Boris Flets, chairman of the Central Election Commission k.r. At a meeting with the turgankul on February 17, 2016, the ekyu/diakb mission announced that it would not monitor local elections.
we expect that the new objectives and objectives in them will be devoted to improving the well-being of the people.
There is an additional instructor workstation on board the es-145 helicopter, which provides the ability to control crew training, change flight conditions, launch and eliminate faults and failures of helicopter systems, "said Victoras Matyushinas, chief pilot of the simulator.
Including 2 billion tenge was returned to the income of the republican budget, and this amount increased 5 times, "he said.
manufacturers of Aktobe industrial products committed themselves to the supply of production balls, crushed stone, red burning bricks, trailed equipment, fire cabinets and fire extinguishers, heat-insulating pipes and fittings, composite fiberglass pipes, polymer-composite wells and wells covers, light-shaped equipment to the neighboring zone.
The project, implemented in Malikum rural district, is included in the state program of industrial innovative development.
Together with the upcoming conference "Religion against Terrorism" on this day will be held important events at the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
According to him, in order to compensate for these shortcomings, the agreement provides for a revision of the qualification system and its alignment with the system of developed countries.
One of the main areas of activity of our fund is the support of young people and talented scientists, the creation of discussion platforms, "he said.
production of raw materials will decrease by 60%, trade - by 50%.
the organization serves as a centre of excellence in the fight against corruption, a training centre for anti-corruption structures in various countries, and carries out research in this field.
now everything will depend on how the regions of the country take advantage of the new opportunities. currently , the region attempts to overcome the continental isolation and develop new transport and transit projects as part of the silk road .
Speaking about the untapped opportunities of the EAEU, the President of the Council noted that these issues arise due to unresolved issues.
Polish partners officially announced that the government pr appointed a commissioner of the Polish national section at the Expo 2017 exhibition and will present advanced technologies in the field of alternative energy resources at the exhibition in the capital.
At the same time, the conduct of two election campaigns did not interfere with their work.
In conclusion, the authors thanked the head of state for creating all the conditions for future generations and wished the head of state good health and success.
Despite this, I want to note that the dynamics of Kazakhstan has been recovering over the past few months, "said a. Preymanis.
thirdly, the association, as an independent legal entity, attracts tax-free loans under the guarantees of the sale of white wheat to the "food corporation."
hundreds of new schools have been built throughout the republic.
kindergartens are put into operation annually, and the city has a high level of fertility and migration.
he showed his effectiveness.
the vocalist noted that preparations for the production of "bohemia," which is carried out jointly with colleagues, will take place quickly, it will be easier for them to convey the creative spirit of the Parisian Bohemian youth of the 19th century.
this is 2 times less than in the 90s, and 3 times less than in the 80s.
this is an "eternal country," "big country" is a large family, "my country," "man of work," said Irina Gypsy.
the Constitutional Law on the Judicial System and the Status of Judges, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Administrative Offences.
Thai tourists like to travel and have heard a lot about Kazakhstan. thai tourists like to travel , they have heard a lot about kazakhstan .
This allowed in 2015 to create more than 29 thousand jobs for 6 thousand people, "he said.
In this regard, it is important to implement the provisions of the programmes in a timely and effective manner, both at the centre and in the field, in accordance with the instructions of the head of State.
In addition, Kazakhstan began to coordinate more work at the level of the region and the city.
he intends to visit Kazakhstan this year.
According to him, more than 25 delegations visited the area.
According to him, the code may be typical for both the quasi-public sector and the private sector.
this is a source of development of the economy, society and socio-political stability, "he said.
Those who served in the Kazakh parliament now want to give the baton to young people who study abroad, learn a new type of government, "the Georgian expert said.
on the one hand, this incurs significant losses.
the value of independence is a great concept of the homeland. the values of independence are the great concepts of the motherland .
Director of the Department of International Projects vdma Alexander House in his report noted that German producers are interested in the development of agricultural machinery.
amendments to land, water, environmental, forest codes and other legislation are aimed at establishing legal mechanisms for the effective use of space infrastructure and the implementation of space results and technologies.
In addition, the commission plans to organize meetings with specialists in construction, energy, education and other sectors on public procurement issues by the end of the first half of the year.
Since the beginning of 2016, the number of pre-school institutions under state orders has increased from 33 to 48.
a delegation of Polish senators, deputies of the Sejm, senior officials of ministries and institutions, as well as journalists will be together with S.Karchevsky.
In August last year, Saryarkaavroprom LLP, the Chinese company chinamachinerycompany and jac motors signed an agreement on strategic partnership and development of the national automotive brand of Kazakhstan.
For each of the five reforms, a road map has been drawn up, and we are consistently implementing them.
Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (ecu), beginning with the 1999 presidential election; the Commonwealth of Independent States, starting with the 2004 elections of Majilis; Shanghai Cooperation Organization - starting with the election of deputies of meetings and maslikhats in 2007. the missions of three international organizations : the office for democratic institutions and human rights of the organization for security and cooperation in europe , the commonwealth of independent states , the shanghai cooperation organization will monitor the majilis elections scheduled for march 20 , 2016 , " - said t. okhlopkova .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that soldiers and officers of these services work effectively in the fight against terrorism, law enforcement, public peace and constitutional order.
Also, the international initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev and the possibilities of their implementation within the framework of the pair were discussed at the meeting of Ashukbayev with the Assistant Secretary General of the UN for Political Affairs Miroslav Ench.
At the same time, the head of state emphasized that internal conflicts and conflicts are the main threat to the Muslim community.
for this, 7 metro stations were created.
at a meeting with the President of the Republic of Finland, the Niinist heads of state discussed issues of cooperation in the field of agriculture, strengthening cooperation in the field of education, as well as joint activities in the field of innovation.
Deputies of the Majilis will exchange views on topical issues identified in the agenda, as well as on issues of the international scientific and practical conference, which will discuss priority areas for strengthening collective and international security in the format of discussion.
if we talk about guarantee lending, then this is an urgent tool for entrepreneurs who feel collateral.
entry into the "white list" will provide recognition of professional diplomas of Kazakhstani sailors by other states.
The program includes 6 areas: economy, social sphere, public security and law and order, infrastructure, ecology and land resources, public services.
5785 applications in the amount of KZT 2544 million have been withdrawn for 20,541,7 objects.
of which 8 candidates of a scientific degree, 5 doctors of sciences, 3 candidates of sciences.
the parties discussed the possibility of implementing specific projects in the field of renewable energy during the signing of an agreement on Monaco's participation in Expo 2017.
The main areas of activity of the deputy group are the development of proposals for improving legislation on the development of regions, informing the population about state policy in the field of socio-economic development of the country and regions, and interaction with the deputies of the maslikhat.
As a result of the adopted complex measures to increase production efficiency, optimize technological processes and energy saving, the company was able to reduce production costs by 16.4 billion tenge.
The purpose of the event is to talk about cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, introducing the capital's schoolchildren to the activities of the EU as closely as possible.
The key point will be a return to the practice of continuous support for the exchange rate of the national currency at the expense of the national fund, "the head of state said.
In this regard, we plan to introduce a system of halo accounting standards for mineral reserves crirsco.
these companies are manufacturers of the railway industry.
On October 29-30, 2015, a meeting of the global eidu forum on competition was held in Paris, one of the sessions of which is devoted to an expert review of the legislation and policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of competition law.
This year, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs established a new "business" special award.
Among them are well-known politicians, public figures, athletes and art historians in the republic.
Last year, the Turkish company galaksi grupp, along with ak-plastic, reinvested a forez plant for the production of metal fittings in the Almaty region. over the past period this year , the turkish company galaxy group and plastic akpen reinvested in the commissioning of the fores plant for the production of metal accessories in almaty region .
According to him, the Kazakh leader made the capital the world capital of the world by promoting initiatives of a global scale.
In order to preserve peace and unity in our country, Kha is doing a great job, "said V. Zheksembekova.
The expert also proposed investing in projects for the production of sanitary products and ceramic tiles.
adopted legislative projects should be social in nature and work for the benefit of Kazakhstanis.	today , the social partnership with various public and government agencies is necessary .	0,81
my visit to your country last year was fruitful, the results of which I highly appreciate.	my last visit was fruitful , and i highly appreciate the results .	0,81
Representatives of ethnocultural associations from all regions of the country gathered at it.	it brought together the representatives of the ethno-cultural associations from the whole country .	0,81
Over the past 25 years, we have been among the fifty competitive countries of the 21st century from the raw materials agrarian of the former Soviet empire.
this is economically and politically important because they open the way for mutual understanding between member States and Cambodia.	in turn , prime minister of the kingdom of cambodia samdech akka moha sena padej techo hun sen said that the signing of the memorandum is  an important historical event for cambodia . "
In turn, N. Bitimov noted that the Government of Kazakhstan has made a number of decisions to reduce tariffs in the railway industry.
- The emergence of additional time for independent teacher training.
according to the master plan, in the future an administrative business center will be built against the new district.
the proportion of first, second and third births was 34% (37%), 28% (27%) and 18% (17%), respectively.
To date, repair work has begun, the construction of 11 km has been completed, "he said.
From 2013 to April 2016, he served as head of the education department of Astana.
representatives of the creative intelligentsia thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his policy of peace and harmony, creating the necessary conditions for preserving the culture and traditions of various ethnic groups of the country.
Another successful project was the development of the kazsat-3 telecommunications system. another example of our successful collaboration was the completion of a project on creation of a telecommunication system kazsat-3 in january last yea .
we need to strengthen the foundation of our relations - trade and economy, especially since we have determined how we should move on.
An investor service center has been created to support investors, "the akim said.
work on voter lists is ongoing. the commission is working on the voters ' lists .
Iran will present Kazakhstan's investment opportunities and state support measures for foreign investors.
As the Minister of Economy and Financial Policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Suleimenov noted, "the commission is considered the highest national body and is the regulator, which the parties make a binding decision.
in his opinion, it is now necessary to give impetus to reforms in Kazakhstan.
The new organizational model was developed on the basis of world best practices with the participation of bcg, deloitte experts, applied to multidisciplinary holdings and independent sovereign wealth funds.
at the congress of the party "Nұr Otan" approved the party list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Following the event, Mukhtar Kul-Mohammed stressed that the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Nur Otan party should always jointly participate in the implementation of the main direction of the policy of the head of state - political stability, ensuring social and interethnic harmony and unity.
The German side stressed the importance of our country's participation in its implementation and emphasized the role of Kazakhstan in the field of mass nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
now, when a new historical period is coming, for the large-scale modernization of the country and the start of the implementation of all areas of presidential reforms of the party, it is important to have a mandate of confidence of the people, "the majilis of the parliament said in a statement.
these products are delivered to South Kazakhstan region and Zhambyl region.
the current convention does not allow the exchange of information on the prevention of tax evasion in Kazakh and Czech legislation "on confidential information."
hence the softness of economic policies, on the other hand, the improvement of the quality of services.
The center is equipped with modern equipment for students, a library and a resting place.
According to him, local authorities play an important role in promoting presidential reforms to the regional level.
in addition, this service is provided free of charge in cases of orphanage, homelessness, territorial behavior, disability, inability to self-service due to age, release from prison, homeless, early conditional release, ill-treatment.
centers develop and implement social programs to support military personnel and their families, organize leisure activities on the territory of the garrison, employment of spouses of military personnel, provide various household services at low prices, study family and household relations, provide moral, psychological, advisory and financial assistance.
for example, "master of figure skating," a competition of musical instruments, a contest of songs "bright star," a dance competition "bright star."
for national companies and holdings in 2014-2016. According to the sales schedule, 141 objects are subject to privatization, as of March 25, 128 objects of the planned 110 object were put up for auction, including 50 objects sold.
therefore, all policies in Kazakhstan are aimed at preserving unity.
including the energy sector, "said Kazakhstan's ambassador to the Czech Republic.
The head of state said this in a message to Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Also, the employment center of the Mayor's Office of Astana employed 5,843 people.
- zh.-tyrykykov, secretary of the central committee "khkp"
I am very glad that at our university there is an opportunity to study at the military department. i am very pleased that our university has the opportunity to study at the military department .
An agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Council has entered into force, a common market and customs legislation are being formed.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the discussion of the role of the investigating judge, the prosecutor of the process in the framework of criminal proceedings, the procedural agreement, the transition from a five-point judicial system to three levels and other issues.
special attention is paid to the coherence of activities of departments, qualifications and theoretical knowledge of each specialist, skillful packing, experience, interaction between crew calculations.
Its main goal is to gain systemic knowledge of the green economy and technology.
and I am sure that they are all of great interest in the world.
in addition, this will allow assessing the work of central and local executive bodies to support domestic agricultural producers in the regions.
According to the CEC member, the monitoring results showed that the activities of political parties participating in the elections will be covered in the Kazakh garden on equal terms and in the prescribed amount.
this is a sign of wisdom and speed and provides Kazakhstan with further support for economic and political initiatives.
During a trip to the capital, the head of the Moldovan railway visited the white and tulpar talgo locomotive factory.
a man who worked continuously, searched for science, ruthlessly mastered the technique.
in general, the law "on access to information" ensures transparency of the activities of state bodies, expands the rights and opportunities of citizens in the management of the state, and strengthens the fight against corruption.
Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kasymzhomart Tokayev in an interview with Rossiyskaya Gazeta noted that "the process of strengthening the role of parliament is not a matter begun yesterday.
It is worth noting that the cost of building a non-growing full-cycle plant and a technopark of auto-component production is 112.8 billion tenge.
A study on the establishment of a sustainable financial system in the UK using a green financing tool under the steam programme on the environment has identified a number of areas that can be used in Kazakhstan.
How do you choose the commissioners?
for example, external, complex conditions.
it all started with that.
on this issue, we are conducting an actual dialogue with Russian partners.
because for the first time we will work as an ambassador to Kazakhstan.
secondly, this is a very important step in the implementation of anti-crisis measures.
During this event, the participants of the meeting discussed issues of cooperation in the development of terrestrial and satellite communication technologies in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a new direction of housing construction for young families was developed directly on behalf of the president.
The project, the construction of which will begin in the near future, will give impetus to the economy of the district and will provide employment for local residents.
The work on ratifying the protocol will help resolve the issue of determining the date of legislation and identifying the funds paid for rent in connection with the reduction of the territory used by the landfill, "he said.
During the speech, K. Kelimbetov noted that, based on the successful experience of the world's leading financial centers, they provide interest-free activities to actively attract foreign investors created in London, Hong Kong, Dubai, Singapore, Ahko.
The opening of the Astana-Tehran route is scheduled for the end of June 2016, which means that the first flight will take place at the end of June.	thus , according to deputy chairman of the committee talgat lastayev , the first flight from astana to tehran will be operated in late june .	0,81
in general, according to the Vice Minister, an algorithm is proposed for transferring the functions of state bodies in a competitive environment.	in general , according to the vice minister , an algorithm for the transfer of functions of government agencies to the competitive environment is proposed .	0,81
I have not seen a man who went abroad and made money.	i have never seen the success of those who seek his fortune abroad , no matter how much many he has .	0,81
any events taking place in Kazakhstan are of interest to other peoples.	and all processes , taking place in kazakhstan 's society , are of great interest to other nations .	0,81
but the entry into force of the agreement will be another serious step towards our ultimate goal of destroying nuclear weapons in the world, the head of state concluded.
the center was created to organize meetings of political parties and members of public associations with representatives of parks, as well as to provide up-to-date information on the upcoming elections during the electoral period.
It was attended by famous artists of Kazakhstan, young Kazakh talented musicians, as well as musicians of Austrian music educational institutions performing on the Austrian stage.
I think he might be even better.
In addition, representatives of the supervisory board discussed a number of issues in the functional areas of the departments of the directorate.
A meeting with Deputy Chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan Vladimir Foos has just taken place. i have just had a meeting with deputy chairman of the central election commission of kazakhstan vladimir foos .
Recall that under the leadership of the general secretariat, an integrated review of Kazakhstan was published, which was launched in 2012.
in addition, the construction of the curb - Ersai railway is underway, which will allow connecting the ferry terminal under construction with the railway, "said D. Potlov.
Given the current external situation, the Government is tasked with ensuring strict control over spending.
One of the problems in Almaty is the situation with communal infrastructure.
the minister recalled that a three-stage selection system has been introduced.
however, it is necessary to change for the better.
in difficult times, Kazakhstan supported a multi-vector principle, which, in turn, made it possible to form a successful foreign policy.
comprehensive preparatory work was carried out to adopt a new regulatory framework for the implementation of the initial agreement on the rules of Islamic finance and the development of internal documents and model contracts.	according to chairman of the board of jsc dbk-leasing alexey boyev , his organization has performed a huge work on preparation for adoption of a new regulatory legal framework and on elaboration of internal documents and contracts .	0,81
Among them are well-known politicians, public figures, athletes and art historians in the republic.	among them there are well-known politicians , public figures , athletes and artists .	0,81
One of the ways to solve this problem is the participation of private business in the construction of preschool institutions.	and one of the solutions to this problem is participation of the private businesses in the construction of pre-school institutions .	0,81
According to him, the renewal of the deputy corps will modernize Kazakhstan and implement strategic plans.	according to him , the early elections will upgrade kazakhstan 's modernization and the implementation of strategic plans .	0,81
because at the beginning and end of all reports, Nursultan Nazarbayev says that the most important thing is to strengthen unity and consolidate society.	therefore , nursultan nazarbayev begins and ends with the theme of strengthening of the unity of our society .	0,81
It was also noted that the 25th anniversary of independence will be celebrated by the whole country.	in addition , it was mentioned that the 25th anniversary of kazakhstan 's independence will be celebrated throughout the country .	0,81
The head of state stressed that the deputies of the new convocation should justify trust, since they have a special responsibility for the effective implementation of the national plan.	the head of state has stressed that the newly elected mps have to justify their confidence , as they have a special responsibility for the effective implementation of the national plan .	0,81
The Kazakh diplomat informed the participants about the economic reforms carried out in the country and modern trends in the development of tourism in Kazakhstan.	the kazakh diplomat informed on the ongoing economic reforms and the modern trends of development of tourism in kazakhstan .	0,81
at the same time, recipients of assistance approve a social contract for compulsory participation in employment promotion and social adaptation programs.	meanwhile , the recipients will sign a social contract on compulsory participation in employment assistance and social adaptation programs .	0,81
On December 2, 2015, under the chairmanship of Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, a meeting was held on the implementation of the order of the head of state to implement the "one window for all investors" principle.
This project is the first plant in the region.
This year Kazakhstan celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.	this year kazakhstan is celebrating its 25th anniversary of independence .	0,81
we must clearly solve our problems.	we have to discuss our objectives .	0,81
I believe that this is fair, "said the Nazarbayeva dariga.
Of course, we are finalizing them.
It is worth noting that there was no production of defatted milk in Kazakhstan earlier.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also met with representatives of the creative intelligentsia of the region.
In 2015, as a result of the introduction of new technologies, labor productivity in the manufacturing industry amounted to 48 thousand tenge per 1 person.
Studying at the military department, we give girls the opportunity to immediately identify themselves as an officer of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan. having trained at the military department , we give the girls an opportunity to immediately position themselves as officers of the armed forces of kazakhstan .
The Energy Forum of the Future will be one of the most significant events of EXPO-2017.
Within the framework of this event, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan held an outreach seminar organized by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Kazakhstan.
people choose international professions, understand that they will be left without work.
In the center there is a gym, a choreography hall, chess, checkers, nine-gumalak, drawing, dombra, as well as rooms for special seminars-trainings with the participation of members of youth organizations of the city.
Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kassymov reported on the prevention of forest and steppe fires.
hundreds, thousands of works that require your new ideas and youth. there are hundreds and thousands of cases , which need your fresh ideas and young hands .
to solve this problem, we are ready to offer them the use of these services in more than 3,000 rural post offices located in our republic, "said B. Musin.
As the head of the Ukrainian CEC noted, the members of the commission began work in a timely manner.
we supervise the work carried out by the electoral commissions.
- Ural landlord of elderly and disabled amangelda bayans;
honestly, I did not expect such a gift.
The state secretary hoped that "The m g_l_k Ate the 25 anniversary of independence of the country on the basis of the national patriotic idea" it will be put in the new works of deep contents symbolizing the benefit, advantage and dignity of the people of Kazakhstan which forms the uniform nation.
Within the framework of the project, a decision was made on the employment of orphans from higher educational institutions and colleges with the involvement of public and private structures.
the participation of religious figures, international experts and members of parliament within the framework of this organization is necessary, "said Kabibullah Kabenuly.
As the chairman noted, the council of mothers is a key link in the upbringing of children and adolescents.
Unfortunately, fate gave him a little life, "he said.
I think that Zhambyl residents already knew about the current cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
international cooperation and the constructive role of our friends are certainly aimed at preserving peace in an explosive zone of the planet.
the unemployment rate was 5.1 per cent of the economically active population.
every day, the professional level of all structures responsible for the security and defense of the country is growing. professionalism of servicemen responsible for the security and defense of the country is growing with each passing day .
The Chairman of the Senate noted that the visit of A. al-kubeisi makes a great contribution to strengthening fruitful cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in the context of establishing an inter-parliamentary dialogue between the two countries.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked the President of Lossertales. for constant attention to the organization of the upcoming event.
The meeting is attended by the leaders of five countries that are members of the Eurasian Economic Union.
engage in space, scientific, sports or other creative work, set an example for the young generation of good deeds of Kazakhstanis who have achieved certain successes. if you set a certain goal , you want to reach the heights , to be engaged in your favorite activity , to do this , first of all , you must study hard , be hard working and believe in success .
1,200 students wishing to work under the Green Country program during the summer holidays will be able to take part in the improvement of the city.
apartments sold on the white line bayterek development will be completely transferred to investors of residential construction bank.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Department of International Relations and Postgraduate Education, as well as 39 rectors of higher educational institutions of the country (national, state, joint-stock companies).
He also noted that the hub, together with state sataps, will prepare a global and regional review of trends in the revival and development of the civil service.
honesty, corruption, courtesy? The participants really liked the presentation of the videos shot among the pupils of the capital's kindergartens.
Note that today the party "Nұr Otan" began large-scale propaganda work in the regions.
During the event, the head of state announced the appeal of the deputies to the Kazakh people with the initiative to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
choosing a specialty in the system of technical and vocational education, in the future young people will not be left without work.
The bill defines the competence of the government, the authorized body, the national bank in the field of circulation of precious metals and precious stones, raw materials containing precious metals, jewelry and other products made of precious metals and precious stones.
According to forecasts of the international energy agency, oil prices in Russia due to the disaster and the volume of products will remain for a long time.
this will not only accelerate the construction sector, but also ensure an early return of funds to builders. it will strengthen the construction sector and also ensure a prompt return of the funds to the developers , which will be accumulated by the funds aimed at supporting of new projects .
today, the cost of manatellurgical silicon is $1,450 per ton.
Also on this day, the ratification of the grant agreement with Kazakhstan (Youth Corps Development Project) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting as the administrator of the trust fund of one donor for energy efficiency programs and the development of the youth corps, is expected.
the first part reflects the historical stages of the formation and development of the foreign policy of independent Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by heads of committees and departments of the ministry, heads of subordinate organizations and the capital, Almaty kk. Representatives of sectoral departments of regional and regional akimats, the department reported.
Aware of the responsibility of the present historical moment, the commonality of goals and tasks, this appeal is accepted by deputies of all three parliamentary factions.
the number will increase.
This became known at the next meeting of the interdepartmental working group on issues that arose during investment activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The head of state emphasized the need to use the potential of both national companies and international companies. the head of state particularly emphasized the need to use the potential of both national and multinational companies .
Participants of the event highly appreciated the reforms carried out by Kazakhstan, noting their timeliness and relevance.
in this regard, an increase in publications of active Kazakh scientists was noted in international rating publications. in this connection , there has been a significant increase in publication activity of kazakhstani scientists in the international rating publications .
also approved amendments to the technical regulations "On the safety of machines and equipment."
to create environmentally favorable conditions for the rest of residents and guests of the capital around the city - on the territory of 25 hectares of the southwestern part of the "green belt," as well as on the territory of 100 hectares of the "northern chain" site - two recreational forest park zones will be created.
it should be complemented by health, education, culture and sports activities and indicators.
The board was also attended by deputies of the parliament, ministers of the school, a.sarinzhipov, commissioner of EXPO-2017 r.zhoshybayev.
According to Saparbayev, measures are being taken to attract transnational companies to the industrial sector to produce export goods and enter the world market.
In addition, representatives of the enterprises held negotiations in the b2b format and visited Almaty utilities.
aa. Omuraliyev thanked for the support provided by the foreign ministry during its activities in Kazakhstan.
One of the main areas of this plan is to increase the effectiveness of special and rehabilitation social services.
Legalization of land without a state act on real estate is impossible, "said a representative of the Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan.
during the meeting V. Zhumakanov reported to the Head of State on the results of the anti-terrorist operation in Aktobe region before this period.
a few years ago, according to the expert, President Nazarbayev warned about the coming decade of the crisis.
first of all, these are successes and achievements in the field of the agro-industrial complex.
today we can be proud of our producers.
mushrooms are grown at mobile complexes, tomatoes are grown on the territory of 5.2 hectares.
from my point of view, the specificity of various new situations is that the pace of human and humanitarian development of society has changed.
Thanks to the specialists, 263,839 residents were examined, including 66,804 children.	the professionals surveyed 263,839 people , including 66,804 children .	0,81
thirdly, today there are no excess profits from oil.	third , there is no oil windfall today .	0,81
In addition, the merits of the first leaders and employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be noted, "said Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbaev.
Kabibullah Jakupov stressed the importance of strengthening mutual cooperation between parliaments in order to achieve joint goals, including in countering international terrorism.
invited speakers included the Department of Transport and Infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Commission, the Association of International Transport Carriers of the Kyrgyz Republic.
talented musicians of the symphony orchestra, a special choral composition, young artists of children's studios, the best masters of opera and ballet art express a sense of love for the heroes.
on behalf of the two countries, the document was signed by the Foreign Ministers of Germany and Kazakhstan.
fourthly, according to the President of the Senate, multilateral parliamentary diplomacy should contribute to the intensification of trade and economic relations and stimulate cultural and humanitarian exchange.
if Puccini had written his previous operas in a romantic manner, then in this opera he began to look for ways to adapt to the performance of new forms, for example, by an orchestra.
views were expressed on state symbols at educational facilities.
During the working visit, the Chinese delegation got acquainted with the work of the terrestrial space infrastructure of Kazakhstan - the center for remote sensing of the Earth and a high-quality satellite control system.
also contributes to the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
in this regard, we would like advice on how to work towards achieving the new goals.
the Constitution has justice with the participation of citizens. the constitution states that justice should be executed with the participation of citizens .
State revenue bodies and commissions of local executive bodies on legalization of property in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan received 78,365 applications for legalization of property in the amount of 787.7 billion tenge.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has come a long way in development, has accumulated enormous intellectual potential and has become a unique institution of public diplomacy, uniting more than a hundred ethnic groups in the country, which have played a large role in the formation of stability in the country. the assembly of people of kazakhstan has passed a long way of development , having accumulated the great intellectual and consolidating potential , and transformed into the unique institution of the public diplomacy that brings together more than one hundred ethnic groups , which played a huge role in maintaining stability and peace in our country .
and a workshop with physical education teachers.
a participant in the program of his home must be a contributor to the housing and communal services.
During the conversation, issues of development of interaction in the energy and transport spheres of the economy, implementation of projects in the field of alternative energy sources were discussed.
we sell at prices set by the market according to the new rules.
it destroys microorganisms and preserves useful substances.
According to him, the deputies of the updated parliament carry out legislative support for global initiatives of Kazakhstan.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the work carried out under the program "Nұrly zhol" and the project "Silk Road Economic Belt" will contribute to the development of partnership and the creation of competitive enterprises based on high technologies in the region.
issues of financial and production activities were touched upon at the meeting, anti-crisis measures in the main areas of the company's development were discussed.
137 applications were also returned, 74 during the consideration, "said M. Alibekova.
these measures will allow quick and effective implementation of administrative budget programs, "he explained.
at the same time, recipients of assistance approve a social contract for compulsory participation in employment promotion and social adaptation programs.
the whole Turkic world is behind him, "said the Secretary of State.
It should be noted that Kazakhstan adopted the concept of military reform and the state program of military construction.
During the conversation with the Minister of Economy of Finland, the contribution of this exhibition to cooperation with countries and the development of a green economy was announced.
our colleagues - a week before that, they handed out the deputy composition at paralyzed meetings and expressed an initiative on early elections. one week ago our colleagues from the majilis initiated the dissolution and holding snap elections .
In total, 328.3 thousand people or 32.6% of the economically active population are employed in this area.
According to him, the law "On Ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of a Pilot Project for Marking Goods for 2015-2016" is aimed primarily at protecting consumer rights.
As the director of the theater noted, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a mirror of the country, on the basis of which the position of "unity in diversity" is enshrined.
Kazakhstan's agricultural potential is very high.	note , this office will operate within the borders of kazakhstan , central asia .	0,81
All units of the defense forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan deployed morale.	all divisions are covered with competitive spirit .	0,81
On the eve of the main sports day of the four-year anniversary, the signing of an important document with the Ministry of Sports of Senegal, "said the head of the Kazakh department.
The project will contribute to the development of the country's transit potential and the improvement of trade relations on the Eurasian continent.
Speaking at the opening of the meeting, the Minister noted that the start of the public council will contribute to the further opening of the ministry's activities to the population.
on the same day, by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
As told in the Central Sports Club of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the winners will be awarded a very symbolic prize for each soldier, that is, the Cup of the mukhtar altynbaev - the national hero of Kazakhstan.
Today, President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev has published a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan in a new global environment: growth, reforms, development."
according to him, the most important value and victory of the Kazakh people, he is a member of the assembly, expresses confidence that they are full members of society, are worthy citizens of their homeland, patriots of independent Kazakhstan.
foreign diplomatic missions should not be attacked, and countries of accreditation must ensure their safety in accordance with the Vienna Convention.
this will make real financial buffering for Kazakhstani entrepreneurs.
The main purpose of the program is to prepare and evaluate peacekeeping units of the Kazakh armed forces.
Also in the center there is a school for young mothers.
We call on all UN member states to support Kazakhstan's proposals for a global anti-terrorism coalition (network) and the formation of common mechanisms for holding accountable those responsible for the corresponding crimes, the minister emphasized.
Nikolai Zhevostovets, executive director of the Association of Mining and Metallurgical Enterprises, was elected head of the social and labor commission.
Christine warmly received the lagarde and thanked for the invitation to participate in the IMF regional conference.
the inheritance of our people, which on the way to this history was perceived as freedom, as freedom, belonged to today's generation.
According to K. Tokayev, the participation of ecu observers in the electoral process in such a large composition testifies to the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the organization.
this international transit corridor in the Zhambyl region runs mainly along the existing road "Almat-Tashkent-Termez."
two of the 15 steps of the nation's plan are aimed at respecting working ethics, that is, offenses and security.
As part of the implementation of the state defense order in November-December 2015, 2 thousand barriers were delivered to the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, or to 68602 military unit of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "and" Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development "sets a goal for the state and society to become one of the 30 developed countries.
In 2016, as part of the Nұrly zhol infrastructure development program, it is planned to implement 12 projects for the construction and modernization of water supply systems in the settlements of Aktobe for a total amount of 4.0 billion tenge, Alaska, Aytekebi, Shalkarsky, Mugalzhar and Zhelezny districts.
in particular, deputies of maslikhats of all levels should receive citizens personally, constantly monitor the targeted and effective spending of funds allocated from the national fund and budget.
According to him, enterprises and organizations concentrated in the tourism cluster are engaged in processing, production and sale of tourism products, as well as will be accompanied by auxiliary services.
every citizen will be able to study the first specialty for free in the future, "he said.
In addition, in connection with the adoption of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Agricultural Cooperation" in the region, work is underway to create agricultural cooperatives.
what do you think our entrepreneurs should do for this?
Goods produced and imported in the territory of the EEO are marked, and labeling outside the territory of the Eeo is allowed, "said Acting Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Rusoan Beketaev.
During the bilateral meeting issues of improvement of cooperation between representatives of Armenian business and entrepreneurs in Atyrau region and development of trade sphere with effective acquisition of mutual opportunities between business companies were discussed.
a unique competition of military-professional skill was held for the first time in Kazakhstan.
A $180 million union market will be available for the Cambodian kingdom.
this is constantly talked about by politicians, advanced scientists, and civil society, but almost nothing has been done. this has been spoken about many times - by politicians , scholars , civil community - but little is done in practice .
Then, representatives of the M Gilik El campaign visited a school, a kindergarten, lawyers and representatives of TsONs met in the city library, as well as the ministry with villagers, and doctors examined the population in a rural hospital.
D. Coles also expressed confidence that the international financial center "Capital" will contribute to the development of Kazakhstan and the region as a whole.
Since 2016, a new law has entered into force that removes barriers and encourages cooperation.
As d.Aityshev noted, this decision is very important at the stage of the implementation of the "plan of the nation."
according to him, the law defines two types of self-regulation based on voluntary and compulsory membership.
In January of this year, Czechs arrived in the region with such a mission.
The success of the President of Kazakhstan requires respect and respect from the population, "the Senate concluded on the bill.
these five reforms are fully provided by law today, "the head of state said.
a traditional form, the Polish Senate plays a leading role in maintaining links with the Polish diaspora around the world.
- I am sure that we can always prove that "nұr Otan" is a party of specific affairs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev has become an improvement of peace and stability, has always put forward peace initiatives and has made the capital the world capital of the world. nursultan nazarbayev has always been known as a supporter for peace and disarmament .
During the business meeting, an agreement was concluded between the Kazakh company and Iranian entrepreneurs.
therefore, we must learn and popularize their culture and history. "
The Arab investor is also interested in the development of camel breeding in the territory of the South Kazakhstan region.
Kazakhstan has great potential for the development of SMEs, including women, so we launched this program. kazakhstan has a huge potential for development of smes run by women .
after entering Kazakhstan, goods have two rates, the list of which: imported for goods, domestic consumption, customs duties are paid at a slow pace, paid at a slow rate of customs duties, and for goods intended for import into the territory of a member state, they pay customs duties through VAT rates.
The portal page contains a calculator reading the delivery price, links to well-known online stores and consultations for online shopping.
there are still difficult goals ahead, tasks for the future express clarity. besides , there are still many tasks that we need to implement .
films are provided in Kazakh and Russian, in originals, shown in English via subtitle.
General Director of global lime industries for the implementation of the project for the construction of a plant for the production of first-grade lime to meet the needs of enterprises of the metallurgical, chemical and food industries represented by Zhanykulov signed a memorandum of mutual cooperation with the Governor's Office of Karaganda region.
In addition, he added that innovative activity has increased in Kazakhstan and reached the level of indicators in countries such as Russia and Turkey.
In accordance with the requirements of borrowers, it is necessary to increase employment by at least one employee, and keep the staff until the end of financing, "the Mayor's Office reported.
we were on the same site before its opening, waiting for its opening - during the course of its work neither I nor other observers found any violations, I was there for about an hour.
A 100-kilometer area in the suburbs of the stepnogorsk was chosen as a pilot project, "said A. Issekeshev.
The stage of maximum visits to Kazakhstanis was considered, minimum prices for June 10 and July 10, 2017 were set. in order to attract the maximum number of people to the exhibition , we have set the promotional period with the lowest price in the period from june 10 to july 10 , 2017 .
In addition, gas stations will be commissioned in 2017-2018, "said Askar Zhusupaliev.
passenger turnover amounted to 81.2 billion pkm and increased by 1.4%.
this will create the necessary conditions for the implementation of a huge program of presidential reforms, strengthening public harmony and national unity.
the main condition in your election process is the organization of elections.	everything was transparent and understandable to voters , and there were no doubts in the integrity and fairness ,  - z. vaigauskas said .
The Head of State stressed that Kazakh banks should comply with international standards.
On the second day of the visit, a large-scale business forum was held, at which the investment opportunities of seven regions were widely presented.
each of us must understand that we are on the verge of very important and necessary political reform. each of us and the society need to understand that we are on the threshold of a very important and at the same time , necessary political reforms and fundamental changes in the social and political structure of our society .
a. spouses noted the importance of efforts to further strengthen relations between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.
in addition, he noted that Great Britain presented one of the best pavilions in Kazakhstan.
at this pace we will be able to develop trade and economic relations between the two countries.
as a responsible member of the world community, Kazakhstan represents the aggravation of relations between the Saudi Arab kingdom and the Islamic Republic of Iran in the face of the threat to security and stability in the region and the need to increase the global fight against terrorism.
Currently, writers and cultural figures of Kazakhstan give various institutions their collections of books. now , many great writers and cultural figures of kazakhstan present their personal collection of books to various institutions .
The President of Kazakhstan at the Nuclear Security Summit in Kazakhstan banned the use of scientific discoveries in the creation of new types of weapons of mass destruction and banned the development of lethal weapons in space. the president of kazakhstan called for a ban to use science for creation of new types of weapons of mass destruction at the nuclear security summit in the us .
Currently, services have been identified, but analysis is being carried out. at the moment the services are more defined , but now there is a detail and an understanding of how they can interact with each other .
We have been working with these foreign partners for more than 4-5 years.
Akim of the region became interested in the master's program of Skolkovsky Institute.
Twice a year, the Government reports on its work within the framework of industrialization in the form of a teleconference.
its launch is scheduled for the 3rd quarter of 2017.
Today, the composition of deputies of the Majilis of the V convocation parliament has taken a historic place - it has changed the national legislation unprecedented in the history of the country. the current composition of the deputies of the majilis of the v convocation had played a historical role - it provided an unprecedented scale of changes in the national legislation .
At the end of the meeting, the parties signed a memorandum of cooperation and agreed to jointly achieve energy independence by providing the population with electricity.
The President noted that he sets specific tasks for the government to ensure all social obligations to the population in full. "
During the meeting, the participants had a full exchange of views on topical issues of global and regional security, on the role and potential of the Anshka in countering modern threats and challenges, maintaining peace and stability in Asia.
production is equipped with modern equipment that allows you to overhaul armored vehicles in full, "explained the head of the white combined workshops of Semey Engineering Valery Kokhachev.
During the session, it is planned to hold 4 government hours and 5 visiting meetings of the parliamentary activities committee and 7 round tables, he said.
the site is ready for work, but they will begin their duties on March 1 this year, "he said.
The Swiss Secretary of State for Economic Affairs Marie Gabriella Inneichn Fleisch shared with the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan the experience of developing the technical and professional education of her country.
every year visits are made at a high level and mutually beneficial cooperation with them in all areas, "he said.
the total share of Kazakhstan in the bank's capital in accordance with the coordination of the bank's capital is 129.3 or 0.7%.
B. The meeting between Amreev and the President of the Congo was the first contact between two high-level official states.
we plan to choose a sectional location for Malaysian companies.
this system does not increase market demand for ferrochemicals.
both holidays are accompanied by the spring month.
this market will be created around 2025, "he said.
the termination of the powers of a member of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the ratification of three international instruments.
during the vote, a decision was unanimously approved to terminate the powers of Ilyas Baktybaev as a member of the constitutional council.
the rest of the work should be done by higher educational institutions, "said the deputy prime minister.
Kazakhstan represents an armored car with mine protection "arlan" paramount engineering, a combat wheeled vehicle for special troops and special forces fighters, as well as military police.
Recall that petrochina is a large company in the structure of the Chinese state-owned oil corporation cnpc, which has management assets in the field of natural gas production, processing, production and production.
According to him, for the effective implementation of this mechanism, individuals are assigned an individual adaptation plan.
the leaders of ethnocultural associations supported the large-scale work carried out by the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
mp. Cambaceres noted the positive experience of Kazakhstan, ensuring equal rights and opportunities for all ethnic groups living in the country, and also highly appreciates the experience of the policy of peace and harmony of Kazakhstan.
funds were also allocated for the improvement of microdistricts built under the affordable housing program.
Thus, according to him, issues of cooperation between the EAEU and the Cambodian kingdom were discussed.
The event was attended by representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the Nur Otan party, the Academy of Public Administration and other organizations.
in this regard, Kazakhstan states that it condemns and categorically condemns such actions by the DPRK in violation of UN Security Council resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013) and 2094 (2013).
the topic of the meeting was called "Aktobe: Investment - Development."
He also noted that Kazakhstan is in a good geographical zone, which will provide social needs in central Asia.
videoconference participants discussed the results of the extraordinary parliamentary elections and the features of the new electoral process in Kazakhstan.
we will definitely take into account the proposals of representatives of the it sector and experts in the field of the act, participants in the discussion on the development of the program, "the minister said.
products are used in such sectors as water supply, industry.
the parties agreed in the near future to sign an agreement on the supply of "locomotive plant products" and 33a main diesel locomotives "roxi ohani tochikiston" as soon as possible.
In 2014, the Steppe Eagle peacekeeping exercises were held in the federal republic of Germany.
As a citizen of Kazakhstan, I believe that holding these parliamentary elections will give the country stability and strength.
As part of the implementation of the National Plan within the framework of the Industrialization Map in Aktobe, 35 projects worth 346.9 billion tenge are planned to be implemented in the next 4 years.
accept today's exhibition as a gift to the Hungarian country of Kazakhstan. let the exhibition be a gift of hungary for kazakhstan .
According to him, a traffic accident will depend on the quality of roads.
Note that the G-20 will be held from September 4 to September 5 of this year in Chinese Hangzhou.
I am grateful to all deputies for their state position and high historical responsibility.
if the land plot is not issued.
this indicator is calculated from certain indicators that show that each employee works efficiently, "said R. dudabayev.
During the meeting, the Secretary of State noted that the price is the main partner of Kazakhstan in the Arab world and in the Persian Gulf region.
We are experts who have been working together in Central Asia for 75 years, and since the 90s we have been not only in Kazakhstan, but also in other Asian countries.
The categories of specific citizens and oralmans, military personnel, law enforcement agencies and special state bodies are exempt from paying contributions.
all conditions for the full work of the press center will be created.
in particular, it was a question of launching small satellites.
today Kazakhstanis need a new law in a new reality, "said the Ukrainian scientist.
a working group will be established to fulfil this interest. "
In accordance with decision No. 2, the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission was instructed by July 1, 2016 to decide on the creation of Eurasian technology platforms within its list, to consider the possibility of including Eurasian technology platforms in state programs for scientific and technical development.
According to the results of the year, the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 290.6 billion tenge.	as a result , the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 290.6 billion tenge .	0,82
Also, the plenary session will consider the issue of registration of the deputy group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	at a meeting , the bureau also registered the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan group .	0,82
according to baktykozh izmukhambetov, interaction is not limited to the transport and logistics industry.	at the same time , the interaction is not limited to the sphere of transport and logistics .	0,82
According to the chairman, these funds will be allocated to housing construction projects that will be in demand by the population.	according to the chairman , the funds will be spent on the popular housing projects , which are guaranteed in demand among the population .	0,82
if we summarize the results of the program of industrial innovative development, then over 6 years 890 new industries have been created.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that taking into account financial opportunities, including savings due to changes in the exchange rate of tenge, a decision was made to allocate funds for additional anti-crisis measures in the following areas.
Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments; Agreement on Cooperation and Cooperation between Member States of the Shanghai Border Cooperation Organization; Protocol to the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea on Regional Preparedness, Response and Cooperation in the Event of Oil Pollution Incidents; The Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms Located on the Land Shelf included questions on the ratification of the 2005 protocol.
Thanks to the political freedom of the head of the two countries, Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin and Nursultan Nazarbayev, their meetings in the space industry will end successfully, "said A. Krasnikov.
2 candidates were nominated by political parties, 1048 - self-nominated.
The implementation of the election program of the Nur Otan party will strengthen independence, preserve civil peace and national harmony.
the family lives in Aktobe.
The volume of investments in the industry is increasing every year.
therefore, I am very attentive to the mixed elections.
Kazakhstan had recently celebrated a day of gratitude for the first time. thailand is our important partner in south-east asia .
We are now helping the Ministry of Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan to improve the new wage system.
Today, the capital will host the ceremony of awarding the winners of the Golden Quality Prize of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the blind competition "Best Product of Kazakhstan," as well as the competition of social responsibility "paryz" for business.
In order to develop the draft Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget and customs regulation (tax and customs code), a working group was established in the Ministry of National Economy, which included representatives of State bodies, the Atameken NPP, NGOs and business organizations.
- Mr. Sardor, on November 30 of this year the message of n.nazarbayev was published.
abroad often refer to scientific and expert materials published by domestic "smart" centers.
In order to start implementing new reforms, in order to effectively implement anti-crisis measures, we will initiate the holding of the fifth convocation and extraordinary deputy elections, "said V. Sosarev.
As the director of the enterprise noted, recently in our country the automotive industry, the production of agricultural machinery, the sale of equipment are developing.
Protecting the homeland is a sacred trust and a great honor.
the proposal of deputies to hold early elections to the Majilis of Parliament is advisable and necessary decision. the initiative to hold early majilis and maslikhat elections is timely and accurate .
for example, the economically active population of the Mangistau region increased by 7% from 283.4 thousand people to 302.4 thousand people.
In turn, Patriarch Kirill stressed that the unique experience of our republic should serve as an example for other countries, especially in different parts of the world.
Cooperation issues in other projects.
As noted, the commission will contribute to strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation, and most importantly - strengthening fraternal relations between peoples, based on the historical root, cultural ties of the member states of Turkic-speaking states.
it is important to know which of the companies, as well as there are foreign companies working on the construction of facilities.
Following the meeting with local authorities, an agreement was reached on improving the work and provision of services through the Kazakh content in the procurement of goods by manufacturers and construction organizations.
The convening of the meeting is entrusted with legislative support for the national plan and a plan for the modernization of the country. the majilis of the vi convocation are tasked to provide legislative support to the national plan , the entire work on modernization .
Irenai Tarzhibaev joined the ranks of the public service. ye . darzhibaev has been working in the public service since 2004 .
The People's Republic of China issued loans worth $2.7 billion.
Singapore is currently developing a conceptual plan for the pavilion under the theme "energy of the future."
this is the result of our unity and cooperation.
project cost 15.0 million tenge.
project cost 20.0 million tenge.
all equipment produced at the plant meets international standards.
According to experts, the roadmap of the laboratory is intended for the producer of the oil and gas industry in the direction of scientific and technological development.
therefore, I think it is better to hold elections together.
Recall, on January 20, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on the dissolution of the majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies of the majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
project capacity - 10,000 tons of apple products per year.
According to the annual doing business report, Kazakhstan was among the top ten on business development reforms.
these are the main aspects of modernization of the public service as a whole.
the folk ensemble "Ural Sazes" named after Garifollah Kurmangaliyev performed at the exhibition.
this is necessary so that in the conditions of hostilities a woman can continue to move in military equipment, "said Colonel Ayr Abdrahman, commander of 83205 a/b.
Azmina Marble LLC (Semisbaev River) is engaged in the production of slab stones, stairs, and natural stones for bricks.
this is the hope of our president and the whole of Kazakhstan, "said S. Mangaliev.
most often there are shortcomings in the payment of duties and fines, as well as control over the submitted announcements and the way in which they are resolved.
a global solution should now be adopted prohibiting the deployment of lethal weapons in outer space, on the bottom of the neutral waters of the world's oceans and in the Arctic.
The foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries of the European Union in 2015 amounted to 31.2 billion US dollars.
During the speech, the head of the Turkish delegation also interrupted the shooting of the film and spoke about the organization of the educational process at the Kulelinsky military lyceum.
the chairmen of the commissions need to strengthen work on the legalization of property on the ground.
In turn, the Government of Kazakhstan will allocate preferential funds for these projects as part of the development of the Nұrly Zhol National Infrastructure Development Program.
Speaking to the participants of the event, K. Massimov stressed that the business council created on the initiative of the leaders of Kazakhstan and China has become an effective dialogue platform for the business communities of the two states.
According to the chamber, the meeting also discussed preparations for the meeting of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
Early elections are caused by the deterioration of the world economic situation and global geopolitical instability, "said A. Almaganbetov.
The Head of State thanked the visiting capital. in order to hold the Asian Olympic qualification tournament on types of wrestling.
In turn, the Prime Minister of Singapore, Li Xian Moon, emphasized the importance of the signed document.
both sides should fully understand the mutual effectiveness of this cooperation.
the special role of members of parliament in the legislative provision of these cases, "he said.
According to the bilateral agreement of December 25, 2003, 11 bus points of 1 railway are located on the Kazakh-Kyrgyz border.
opportunities to exchange experience in the field of tourism, attract Singapore tour operators to cooperate and open direct flights between countries.
In the program of the meeting of the delegation, a number of bilateral meetings of the chairman of the chamber are planned.
According to President Nursultan Nazarbayev, we could maintain peace and create progressive ideas and effective measures based on world experience in ensuring sustainable development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
we knew that there would be a crisis, we took the necessary measures to overcome it, now we need to move on. we took all the necessary measures to overcome the crisis , and now we must move forward .
their necks are entrusted with such complex legislative work.
Poor awareness of State programmes to the public.
Also, the Supreme Commander stressed that members of the armed forces should take into account the new trends and characteristics of armed conflicts, constantly improve the level of professional, combat and moral and psychological training.
Also a. Volkov informed members and observers of the council about the high level of the initiative to convene the Kazakhstan International Conference.
In addition, within the framework of the state program "Nұrly zhol," at the expense of the state fund, a 280-seat kindergarten is being built in the village of Masanchi, which will be commissioned in August 2016.
It is worth noting that the exhibition will present a large list of personal protective equipment of this industry, measuring instruments, protective equipment for builders and industrial mountaineering, an air purification system, collective protective equipment and other achievements.
in order for the economy to become powerful, and production volumes to grow, these specialists are needed.
The participants also urge their colleagues to strengthen measures to increase forestry, reduce diseases and pests of the forest, illegal logging, and prevent forest fires.
According to akim, computer-X-ray tomography appeared on the implementation of the projects.
in the future, all areas of the region will be included in this map.
before launching it, world best practices were studied.
its main goal is to increase the efficiency of production activities.
The Chairman of the National Security Committee noted that to date 13 criminals have been destroyed and 14 injured.
Also, with the subjects of domestic business, work and services worth more than 15 billion tenge were performed, "said the head of the national company Astana Expo-2017 during the meeting A. Yessimov.
obtaining a manifesto of high status in the international community in the general assembly and security council is a vivid sign of the head of state.
Photo from the site kapital.kz
According to N.Sheimerdenova, young generations who speak several foreign languages, have been educated through the "future" program, today have the opportunity to offer new ideas and work in the geopolitical situation in the global crisis.
During his visit to the capital a. Al-Khumei expressed his intention to sign a memorandum of understanding between Kazakhstan and a number of countries in the field of environmental protection.
According to him, today before the socio-entrepreneurial corporation it is planned to make it a profitable and effective tool for the economic development of the region.
Now all necessary documents and test tasks can be submitted in one place.
Uzbekistan is also a country with a rapidly growing stable economy in Kazakhstan.
public councils are given the right to discuss the draft budget programs of state bodies and their implementation, strategic plans, and territorial development programs.
At the same time, it is not envisaged to transfer the temporary functions of state bodies to a competitive environment, "said M. Susainov.
The site service is based on the collection of all information events and discussions related to the upcoming elections. the purpose of the website is to collect all the information about the upcoming elections and discussions around this event .
We are also considering the possibility of establishing trade and economic relations with integration organizations such as EU, Shu and others, "N. Nazarbayev said.
During the conversation, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan informed about the main directions of the prosecutor's office, as well as the ongoing work to expand and strengthen the legal framework.
According to the Vice Minister, today the refinery in Kazakhstan is competitive with Russian companies.
Recall that the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" will be held in Astana from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
aa. Muratov said that the state is assisting foreign companies in the implementation of Hindu projects in Kazakhstan.
when selecting military personnel, their psychological stability, physical endurance, professional skills and assessment of fire giftedness were studied.
nothing's changed.
For a quarter of a century, friendly relations between the two states are rapidly developing, China is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan.
In addition, among the state support projects is the plant of LLP "асыл-бастау.kz" for the production of finished dry, defatted milk and butter with a design capacity of 17520 tons per year.
Since Aktobe region imports ferrous metals, industry, household equipment and spare parts for cars from Germany, projects for the production or assembly of these goods in our region were proposed to the Permanent Deputy Ambassador of Germany.
The Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan will take part in the press conference.
Together with foreign partners, we have developed an educational program.
however, the situation in the regions is not very good, there entrepreneurs work for themselves. "
during the discussion of issues of further improvement of the Ansshka, e. Idrissov explained the main manifestations of the Kazakh side to create security and development organizations in Asia on its basis.
The purpose of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public-Private Partnership" is to form and strengthen long-term cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the private sector by combining resources to increase the level of quality and accessibility of public goods and services.
we, Kazakhstanis, became the founders and discoverers of the Kazakh renaissance of the nation.
at the Tashkent summit, a historic decision will be made to expand the shu. historic decision on expanding the sco will be taken at the summit in tashkent .
The President of Kazakhstan and the King of Saudi Arabia exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda and the main areas of countering terrorism and extremism at the global level.
The head of state emphasized the importance of countering terrorism and preventing nuclear weapons from falling into the hands of extremists.
the electoral program of the rural party consists of five sections.
and we must, in fact, mark our points, adjust our plans.
we reached the 25th anniversary of independence with a new Kazakh dream, the main goal of which is the implementation of the 2050 strategy.
During the mission, a meeting of the Kazakh delegation was held under the leadership of the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan e.nysanbaev.
this strategy will also receive many directions for the modernization of these colleges, starting with the educational program, teacher training, working with employers, as well as providing colleges with the necessary equipment, "he said.
everything is the same in space, everyone helps each other, believes. on the board of the spacecraft , everyone is equal .
I want to note that I signed a decree on the creation of a working group on the introduction of free vocational education for all. i have signed a decree establishing a working group for the implementation of the project on free vocational education .
According to the data, the exercises will last until July of this year.
redistribution of investments in accordance with state legislation. according to the law the akimat will return funds invested by the partner .
At the meeting, the head of the region noted that the region is open to all investors interested in mutually beneficial cooperation.
not surprisingly, Kazakhstan has taken anti-crisis measures. it is not surprising that kazakhstan has begun preparations for the period of the economic recession in advance .
As part of this ceremony, the President of Kazakhstan spoke with the Deputy Head of Government of the Brussels Astana region. Vanhengel expressed condolences in connection with the tragedy.
Madame Butterfly "- this year the peak of the average period of buccini creativity.
also in the republic will be widely developed public-private partnership for the construction of social facilities.
I instruct all akims to carry out this work and report on it every six months.
Allow me to congratulate you on this wonderful holiday, which today celebrates all the people of Kazakhstan. let me congratulate you on this wonderful holiday , which is celebrated today by all kazakhstanis .
we, as international observers, saw how ready the information atmosphere was, clearly decided which party citizens would vote for.
I wish you good health and well-being, "said Mr. Golovkin.
Participants of the action of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" thanked inhabitants for great hospitality and support of active work.
if Turkey is the "door to Europe," then Kazakhstan is the way to Eurasian space for Turkey, "- said A.Dauitoglu.
Recall, on December 16, 1991, President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
If we talk about the shortage in the labor market, we have a list of current vacancies. we have a portal www.enbek.kz , collecting all the vacancies in the country , a fairly extensive database .
we agreed with the members of the consortium.
According to him, CIS members during the day will conduct observations at polling stations in the capital, cities of Almaty and the regions, and then provide interim reports on elections in Kazakhstan.
According to him, diesel fuel reserves fully cover the needs of agricultural producers, the volume of which amounted to 366.8 thousand tons.
I want to express my respect to the Kazakh leader and thank him for his friendly relations as a citizen of Iran, "he said.
in his speech, he noted that Kazakhstan perceives Russia as a strategic ally and partner, connecting not only a country with economic ties, but also history, culture and mentality in general.
Since 2016, the local police service began to work.	in 2,5 months this year 250 thousand cases have been received .	0,82
I also thank you for today's peace day.	i want to say again :  thank you for the peace ! " thanks to you we live .
these specialties are in demand in the labor market and are protected by the state.
In addition, as part of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the historical and cultural expedition "Country of the Great Steppe" was organized.
the search for joint solutions at such international meetings as the Astana Economic Forum should not stop.
when our country was just beginning to realize the first results of the changes, there was a financial crisis in south-east Asia from 1997 to 1998.
EKR implemented 76 projects, 45 of them implemented.
On June 10, 2016, Aitzhanova presented her credentials to the Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Roberto Azevedo.
Popular Kazakh and Neapolitan songs will be presented to the public in a special combination of classic world musical masterpieces.
this idea then did not find support from the leaders.
The beginning of the 21st century, as you know, was remembered for the complication of relations between states and religions. the beginning of the 21st century was marked by the deterioration of relations between the states and religions .
a few weeks ago, an agreement was signed in the capital on the participation of Cubans in the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
In this regard, it is planned to open facilities in this area.
a delegation of the authorized crirsco committee on the consideration and harmonization of the Code on the results of exploration and mineral resources kazrc arrived in the capital.
At the meeting, the parliamentarians of the two countries met with the akim of the Altai Territory and representatives of national associations of the region.
On the ekyu/diakb website, it became known that most of the observers are preparing in this area.
To date, applications have been received for the legalization of property in the amount of 1.8 trillion tenge, of which 1.6 trillion tenge have been legalized. to date , we have received applications for legalization of property totaling 1.8 trillion tenge , of which 1.6 trillion tenge has been already legalized .
The Minister, together with WWII veterans and home front workers, planted trees on the institution's square and took part in a festive concert.
as an Iranian citizen, I am grateful to the Kazakh leader.
After the meeting, the Baybek got acquainted with the construction of the student games.
On behalf of the head of the region, a meeting was organized with volunteers who were selected at YukSU named after M. Auezov under the chairmanship of the regional department of entrepreneurship, industrial and innovative development and tourism.
the plant produces specific drugs such as peptone, pancreatin and hematogen with various additives.
they are currently competing to determine who will defend the country's honor at the 2016 Army International Games.
It is worth noting that this indicator was achieved without the use of amnesties.
- Permanent Director of the Research Institute of Rice Production Serikbai Zhayzakov;
It should be noted that by legalization of property located in the territory of Kazakhstan, the state revenue authorities received 44 applications for legalization of property in the amount of 1 200.0 million tenge: 38 residential objects in the amount of 1 128.0 million tenge; 3 objects without residence in the amount of 8.3 million tenge, including 2 commercial objects in the amount of 6.1 million tenge; 3 interests of legal entities in the amount of 3.7 million tenge; securities in the amount of 60.0 million tenge.
"- Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the presidential administration - head of the secretariat.
and on the organization of the judicial and law enforcement system in Kazakhstan, the competence of State bodies and the protection of human rights.
The results of the study will allow the government to analyze and reduce administrative barriers to doing business in agriculture, on the basis of proposals of independent experts to amend the existing development programs of the bank, taking into account the successful experience of foreign countries, to effectively use budget funds aimed at supporting agriculture.
On behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, we must abandon low-productivity projects. the key is the task of the president to move away from low-productivity projects .
students themselves should promote proper nutrition, "he added.
It is noted that this is the first agreement between the two countries after the lifting of sanctions from the Iranian side.
Unfortunately, mankind still needs the energy of a "peaceful atom" until scientists create a lackluster hole.
When working with 10 colleges, we developed a strategy for each college.
evaluation of the akim and his apparatus.
According to Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov.
everyone has their own time and requirements, and all this delayed the work of kindergarten.
he transferred to the directorate of Almaty sports projects from the post of head of the department of physical culture and sports.
As the Korean observer noted, Kazakhstan and Korea are strengthening cooperation on election observation.
according to him, Kazakhstan should be responsible for all circumstances and for this we have our own active strategy.
In the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, work in this direction is carried out under the leadership of Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mukhtarov.
Kazakhstan and Russia have a common border of more than seven thousand kilometers, a large share of trade and human relations is characteristic of the border regions.
Note that the agency concluded open contracts and agreed to work together with several organizations to form an anti-corruption culture.
According to the 99th step of the National Plan, the creation of a new public institute with state bodies and communities is entrusted in the country.
voting is held at a high level, all norms are respected, today everything is going on at its own level.
Note that the organizer of the session is the "samruk-kazyna trust."
According to the minister, in January and March there was a decrease in oil refining volumes, while at the same time, export-oriented black oil products also decreased.
This means that during the year, 600 Kyzylorda houses will be available through the "home" program.
According to the head of the headquarters, all events planned by the CEC are organized within the framework of the law "On Elections."
As Chairman of the Commission - Secretary of State of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova noted, in many countries, when a peaceful situation occurs, the methods of their turn should be used.
I am glad that from the side of the party "Nұr Otan," from the point of view of public opinion and leaders of public organizations, he was a leader of the society of disabled people and a woman.
our know-how is paper towels in the way of technical needs made of black cardboard. we have the know-how - paper towels for the industrial use , which are made of dark cardboard .
no country in the world has ready recipes, models and answers to the challenges in this area.
The possibility of raising the wages of Kazhrom employees due to inflation was also considered.
According to A.Pilko, the council is not a closed trade and economic association.
The first half of the 1990s, when we declared our independence, was favorable?
The event was also attended by the Chairman of the Council of Managers of the Republic Alexander Mashkevich.
Earlier, Kazakhstan concluded treaties with Iran on the extradition of persons, as well as on legal assistance, legal relations in civil and criminal matters.
for access to credit funds issued to the bank "Zhk" ansary, "a guarantee is provided from the fund" development. "
therefore, it is necessary to organize a special specialized economic institute and a center of anti-crisis council for entrepreneurs and industry in universities of Kazakhstan.
In the National Plan of 100 concrete steps, social security measures were proposed, a new labor code was adopted, and the role of trade unions was strengthened.
in the western regions of the country: aktobe, atyrau, West Kazakhstan and Mangistau regions, voting lasted until 9 p.m. Astana time.
the construction of a new plant will be carried out in the Kazakh-Turkish industrial zone.
Do not the contradictions between the leading powers develop into a new long-term confrontation between them?
- Maktayev marat salimovich, General Director of Integra LLP
in accordance with the calendar plan approved by the Central Election Commission, candidates for deputies of maslikhats are nominated until February 19, 2016, and registration - until February 23.
I repeat that only citizens of Kazakhstan will be able to buy the land.
in ugana for the first time will take part in the winter universiade.
Parliament and local maslikhats set themselves new goals.
We also agreed yesterday with the President of Kazakhstan.
these will be the main documents discussed at the inaugural meeting of the public council.
And in the 30s, 250 thousand people were sent from the central part of the former USSR to the peasantry, when the economy in Russia was finally liquidated.
this initiative of majilismen was widely supported among citizens of Kazakhstan.
the unity of a multi-ethnic society was a condition for sustainable development.
in particular, the use of land remote sensing data in State monitoring of surface, forests, water bodies and subsoil, as well as in disaster management is legally ensured.
the Director General of the World Trade Organization noted the high efficiency of cooperation with our country and expressed gratitude for the adoption by the President.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked the leader from the western region of the African continent for the first visit to our country.
The region's power plants produced 34.7 billion kw of electricity.
we must always remember and thank.
because, eternal country "is called upon to create an eternal society of Kazakhstan, which can freely master and apply innovations of science and technology in the world, civilization of the world as a whole.
In his message on achieving the goal for the coming year, he emphasized the goals that we achieved this year on the way to strengthening and strengthening independence, "the student said.
the figures you talked about today, and the millennial history of the city indicate its future greatness and further development, "said M. Borradori.
According to the minister, the head of the school will appear, that is, administrative schools themselves will decide how to repair what salary to set.
The Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the plenary session proposed to prepare on the agenda a draft law "On ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the use of land plots in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the fall of parts of launch vehicles launched from the Baikonur space site."
- mirnov victor alexandrovich, head of the central committee "khkp"
I hope that today's event will be a dialogue platform for the formation of legislation on national products in Kazakhstan.	and it will also help the interested state bodies of kazakhstan in the development of a special law on the kazakh national products .	0,83
the commission is working so that our citizens can get the most reliable information about the progress of discussions through the media, "said B. Sagintayev.
According to the head of the region, the main factors ensuring the investment attractiveness of Aktobe region are: proximity in the markets of the CIS countries; aviation, railways, geographical location at the intersection of the highway and the Caspian Sea and central Asia zone, linking them with European regions.
Also, at present, parliament needs qualified specialists, "said the chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan.
This year, I signed a decree on the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child in Kazakhstan as a guarantor of child protection.
this opens new horizons of partnership with the countries of southern and eastern Europe and the Baltic coast.
during its development, the main principles of the international labor organization were taken into account, as well as the experience of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the member countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, "said Duissenova.
To date, this company has had problems with the supply of goods to domestic and foreign markets.
Chairman of the Public Council of Almaty region noted the results of the work done since the election of the Alikhan Toibayev.
Every year, the number of small and medium-sized businesses in the region grows, which means reaching the population with new jobs, a stable source of income.
this is oratory art, presentations, communicative skills, that is, we want to teach children to develop themselves and plan their time correctly, "said Alexander Spirin, a member of the Union of Citizens of the capital.
- So what is the importance for you today of the first President of Kazakhstan?
senators are confident that they will ruthlessly spend their great experience in adopting laws necessary for the sustainable development of society and the state, "Tokaev said.
there is no competition among 10 universities that train idmb personnel, since all priorities are distributed according to plan, the coverage of the regions was carried out as part of the iidmb program. the state program of industrial and innovative development has been included in all strategic documents of kazakhstan , and its implementation is not possible without training of the new formation .
thus, the state can control all processes, and most importantly, form a good degree of life for all residents.
the petitioners' appeals concerned the legality of judicial acts in civil and criminal cases and the pre-trial stage of the criminal process.
During the business format, it is planned to sign an agreement on the creation of the Kazakh-Spanish business council between the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan and the Spanish Chamber of Commerce.
Our independence, which began primarily with the establishment of the economy, has been strengthened every year, and our authority and authority have been strengthened before the world.
the main color used on the coat of arms is the color of gold.
a great deal of training has been done. a lot was done to train personnel .
It was attended by a member of the election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat sarsembayev, royal lawyer of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, deputy judge of the supreme court for administrative cases James Thomas Levis, as well as the chief executive officer of "integral media llp" alan Jones spence.
- Director of the Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs
with the participation of representatives of second-level banks, the Development Fund, successful entrepreneurs, the competition commission determines the 3 best projects according to the criteria for belonging to the type of business to the priority sectors of the economy, creating new jobs, social impact, environmental impact/impact on the environment and the amount of financing.
our experts held seminars with the ahco group on the development of the stock exchange and the capital market.
According to him, active preparations are underway for the upcoming elections.
I also want to note that the work was organized in a coherent manner, and I saw how quickly people's queues are moving.
The regional election commissions are actively preparing for elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels. the regional election commission works actively to prepare for the elections in the majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels .
The Youth Party of Kazakhstan on behalf of youth organizations of the country provides support to deputies of the Majilis of Parliament for holding early parliamentary elections, maslikhats of all levels.
I congratulate everyone on the opening of the international memorial named after N.Nmekbaev, which is held in honor of the 71st anniversary of the great victory. i warmly congratulate all on the opening of an international memorial tournament held on the eve of the 71st anniversary of the great victory .
Also, foreign guests visited the new transport and logistics center of the capital and the Center for Assessment and Development of Railway Personnel.
as a man who survived a crowded, slippery past, a politician, as a statesman who made a difficult decision to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, I appeal to world leaders and the entire international community with an insistence on turning to reason.
Device a100 is used for conducting military and special operations, patrolling and guarding objects, driving vehicles at the place of departure at night without the use of visible light energy.
This decision was announced during the first planned conference on the holding of the Army International Games 2016 in Moscow, the report said.
organized round-the-clock duty of management and command personnel.
In addition, the development of the construction industry will contribute to the development of other industries.
In addition, instructions were given to create living conditions for drivers, as well as to organize the registration of entry cargo by road transport on the principle of "one window."
Recall that the youngest and smallest political party of Kazakhstan "Unity" unites more than 59 associations and plans to take part in the elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, which will be held on March 20.
the capabilities and objectives of kazatomprom and converdin are similar and complementary.	president of converdyn malcolm critchley said that the possibility and purpose of kazatomprom and converdyn are similar .	0,83
The Ionosphere Institute presented reports on "geophysical monitoring and geoinformation systems, including methodologies and new programmes for monitoring geoorta and ionosphere, as well as the results of their application.
In the future, it is planned to open such rehabilitation centers in all areas of the region, "said the chief doctor of the regional perinatal center of the kultaev label.
The implementation of this project will expand the range of products and develop a large vessel.
in addition, 11 production sites are being created to place production plants on an area of ​ ​ 477 hectares.
the changes and additions expanding competence of assembly for ensuring realization of the national patriotic idea "With m g_l_k are made to the Law "About Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan" of the Republic of Kazakhstan ate".
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, security, as the results of the President's summit on nuclear security in Washington and "peace. XXI century. "
based on the results of such negotiations, decisions will be made within the framework of the pair. following these negotiations , decisions are made within the framework of the un .
The Vice Minister noted the main changes in the PPP program.
the geoeconomic situation is one of the reasons for the rapid holding of these elections, "the expert noted.
The state program for the development of languages ​ ​ provides for the opening of a free course for anyone who will study the Kazakh language.
this is a record figure in the number of participating countries in the Winter Universiade.
both for current socio-economic measures and for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
Kazagrofinance will be reformed from a multidisciplinary financial institute to a leasing company.
a large, cost-effective enterprise requiring no financial support from the State.
this law will reduce the introduced burden, eliminate negative aspects of government regulation, improve the quality and competitiveness of domestic goods, increase responsibility for work and services, as well as market participants to consumers.
our company is one of the best in the world in terms of these indicators.
firstly, metallurgical production is well developed in Karaganda region.
these are the words of our head of state, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, who for centuries dreamed to our people of "sovereignty and freedom" not by force of arms, but by good deed, conflicting hands.
The head of the region congratulated the parents of children attending the "doni" and "fun," cut a symbolic ribbon and examined kindergartens.
first of all, it is an understanding of how and what difficulties we have overcome. the new reality was caused by external and internal factors .
Director of the Land Institute of Columbia University jeffrey sax and happy sagintayev discussed issues of economic diversification, structural reforms in Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the meeting, we agreed to cooperate with ha-ha, since the issue of peace and harmony is relevant not only in Kazakhstan, but also in France, "said J. Mambusres.
According to the ambassador, the potential for the development of trade and economic relations has not yet been fully realized.
a state will appear from such organizations. " lavrinenko.
because young girls from Kyrgyzstan and Bashkortostan write to us. "
Thus, as part of a public-private partnership, a sports complex will appear in the freedom area, a school and a kindergarten in the Nauryzbay district will appear in the county.
This enterprise has been covering Astana, cheese, kefir for the fourth year in a row, the regional akimat reported.
the world should regard it as an important event in the safe and peaceful use of the atom, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in the western regions of the country: aktobe, atyrau, West Kazakhstan and Mangistau regions in connection with the time difference, voting will last until 21 pm metropolitan time.
the area of ​ ​ the green belt is more than 14.8 thousand hectares, about 9.7 million trees and 1.9 million shrubs will grow here.
I am your first visit to the city, and my admiration for the city is unlimited. first of all i would like to express my admiration .
N. Yermekbaev spoke about further steps to improve the activities of law enforcement agencies, protect the rights of citizens and protect public order.
On the part of Prime Minister Sergei Sidorsky, President of the International Congress of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the press service of the commission said.
in addition, the application does not require mandatory authorization.
teachers showed great interest and showed activity during the master class.
The head of state noted that the foreign intelligence service is currently moving to a new stage of its development.
In terms of new social policies, priority basic needs must be met.	as for the new investment policy , it is necessary to attract private investments , to set up regional drivers of economic growth .	0,83
this year influenced the spiritual development of society.	this day will be celebrated on the day of the creation of the apk .	0,83
infrastructure organizations, international financial institutions and the international capital. "
On the basis of the contract with samruk-kaznaya amg, icao is working to introduce the best world practices, including aviation safety systems and flight safety management, quality control programs in accordance with international standards.
classes and tactical lectures on state legal training, fire and fire training are also held.
During the visit to the Kingdom of Sweden, the Commissioner of expo 2017 rapil zhoshybayev met with leaders and chairmen of the Swedish business community.
state support will be provided to citizens of regions in which the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is established.
road workers also provided economic assistance, cleared territories and provided the necessary medicines.
The Kazakh diplomat focused on the "Nұr zhol" program, which strengthens the transit potential of Kazakhstan and is an infrastructure development.
In this regard, the growth of Kazakh tourism has begun, he said.
- light dmitry maximovich, secretary of the central committee "kkp"
During the visit, bilateral meetings of the Majilis Speaker with the chairmen of the national parliaments of the CIS are scheduled.
Head of Tajik railway Mirzoali expressed readiness to expand cooperation in the field of railway engineering with Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC.
we have one story - this is a success story, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the best powers in the world began to declare sanctions to each other.
it was now important to lift restrictions on the privatization of public sector facilities.
Where there is good leadership and good owners, money goes to everyone, the workers are satisfied, the work will go at its own pace.
the mission notes that citizens were active during the elections. the mission noted high activity of citizens in the voting process .
At the end of 2015, Kazakhstan, which produces 23,800 tons of uranium, retained a leading position in the world as the largest producer of natural uranium.
Thus, the city successfully fulfills the instructions of the head of state N. Nazarbayev to increase the share of Kazakh content and reduce the cost of goods.
This educational programme is highly appreciated by the Government and the population. our educational program is highly appreciated among the population , the government agencies .
In turn, the innovators presented the potential of yuko for development in the field of "green" technologies.
we could form because of our borders, and there is an understanding that the main thing in our people is that everyone is responsible for his homeland.
reduced communication services in roaming will ensure economic integration, economic recovery, expand joint projects in various sectors of the economy and increase tourism potential among the EAEU states.
The parties expressed interest in the implementation of the joint project "Green Economy" and expressed their intention to continue close cooperation in order to support domestic small and medium-sized businesses.
According to the Secretary of State, during the implementation of Kazakhstan's strategy, numerous targeted results have been achieved.
that would mean additional pressure on the business.
According to him, the specialists of the medical service met with local doctors, advised to use the new equipment correctly and assisted in diagnostic diseases.
in the Shalkar region, the construction of a mining and metallurgical complex for the processing of iron ores will begin.
The event is held on the initiative of the Security Council of Russia in the Grozny Chechen Republic with the participation of representatives of about 80 states and international organizations.
the theme of today's session is largely devoted to sustainable development. the theme of today 's session is mostly devoted to the sustainable development .
these problems are temporary, since the eao is in its formation only in the first year.
now the plant helps develop jewelry in Kazakhstan and produces large-sized ingots.
he proposed the creation of a new algorithm that would prevent new global conflicts, and in this regard would direct the world community to action.
of course, if an animal is sick, then it is dangerous.
the company has its own oil and fat workshop, is equipped with a bread receiving station for processing and storage of grain and oilseeds, as well as agricultural equipment.
Abdikalikova highly appreciated the successful partnership of the museum of the first president and the museum-monument "St. Isaac's Cathedral" in the formation of a unified system of historical and spiritual education of the population, primarily the younger generation.
In turn, Governor of the region A. Batalov reported to his Chinese colleagues on the possibilities of the region and noted that favorable conditions for the development of partnership have been created in the Khorgos border center and industrial zones.
now it is necessary to go to specific cases, for this you need qualified professional personnel, "said K. Auesbaev.
Parliament is working to legislate for the nation's plan.
Increasing the transparency of the tax sphere should be the main task of the government.
this is directly due to the fact that employees who have graduated from our higher or secondary specialized educational institutions and have mastered a certain specialty cannot fulfill the corresponding requirement. this is due to the fact that the requirements , put by the employers , aren 't always provided by our employees - graduates of higher or secondary education institutions , or who had certain professions previously .
The assessment was carried out according to 5 main requirements: administrative regulation, state support, property, civil and financial resources, the center "Current Information" reports.
to date, 2 akkas for the fishing industry and 1 for the development of agriculture have been created.
in the regional, district and city newspapers published detailed information about where the polling stations and districts are located, "- said a.miraliev.
his name is lush.
for the credit we received we acquired a modern high-performance production network.
It is worth noting that in the holy city unprecedented residential buildings are located along the transport corridor "Western Europe - Western China."
In the regions, it is necessary to create such councils as are necessary to attract investment for the implementation of projects of local importance.
in addition, the document provides for the introduction of new requirements for adoptive parents, guardians or guardians.
this is evidence of the high efficiency of our parliamentary model and the system of interaction between the plenipotentiary and executive branches of state power.
we will actively participate in the development of the Shanghai cooperation organization.
Kazakhstan is a platform for peace and harmony.
We also discussed the issue of the individual balance of coal supplies to the power plant in 2020-2023, "said the school.
the first place in the unofficial international competition was taken by snipers from Kazakhstan, the second by German shooters, the third by a Kazakhstani couple.
In general, the crisis gives us a clear understanding of the need to make significant changes in our work in the country in the near future, in particular in the field of improving risk management and identifying the latest technologies, "said Mr. Gref.
the length of all projects will be 1 thousand km.
Noting the significant potential of bilateral cooperation between the two countries, he noted that he intends to continue efforts to strengthen cooperation and come to Kazakhstan this year.
Also, according to the information from 03.02.2016, a 11 of special declarations for money legalization was adopted and funds worth 8,322,0 million tenge were legalized.
The event was attended by more than 30 Romanian companies working in priority sectors of the economy, as well as representatives of state institutions, regional chambers of commerce and industry and business associations.
now, summing up today, social networks have been actively used.
The main goal of the project is to determine the rating of the region by indicators of ease of doing business.
employees who violated the order and the law. employees hold responsible who committed violations of law and discipline .
today 53% of the world's population lives in cities, and experts estimate that by 2050 their number will be 70% of the global. nowadays 53 % of the world population lives in the cities .
My trips to London and Paris were also successful in terms of economic cooperation.
During the meeting, Akishev reported to the head of state on the current activities of the national bank, as well as on the situation in the financial market of the country.
Now we see the scale of the global economic crisis.
The meeting was also attended by Secretary of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security of the Majilis from Kazakhstan Irina Aronova, member of the Chamber Committee on Ecology and Environmental Management, head of the cooperation group with the Republic of Latvia Shavhat Utemis.
main reports professor b. caribaev, writer and Asian researcher, academic Ahmed Tarabik, Junesque expert, Egyptian public and political figure Dr. Darwish a., President of the Egyptian-Russian Foundation for Culture and Science Dr. x. Shafi'i, Director of the Department of Dialogue among Civilizations of the League of Arab States. Created a beibars and spoke about the contribution of Turkic peoples to the history and culture of peace, as well as about the development and international initiatives of modern Kazakhstan.
The next priority issue of cooperation is ensuring food security in the Shu'a space and around the world as a whole, K.masimov believes.
in short, we must burn the green color of young people trained to make energy-filled decisions.
additional picture, geolocation and environmental violations: illegal felling of trees, the presence of emergencies, burning of foliage and garbage.
there should be no shortage of doctors, "said the governor of the region.
79 applicants took part in the nomination "The best enterprise in the field of labor protection."
in particular, decisions were made on the concept of creating a Eurasian engineering center for oil production, approving the regulation on the formation and operation of Eurasian technological platforms, the concept of forming common markets for oil and petroleum products and others.
in addition, the audience will be presented with works by Kazakh composers.
this is because the human essence does not change, even when a century has passed, "said the famous maestro Alan Buribayev.
The head of state also spoke about the work done in the development of the civil service.
During the meeting, Sergey Kulagin reported to the head of state on the socio-economic situation and the set plans of the region.
there are special equipment, including modules.
these documents have been adopted.
Work on elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels is carried out according to the calendar plan. preparations for the snap elections in the majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels are conducted according to the schedule .
Works were carried out on the main water supply, power supply on the external line, "the Governor's Office reported.
- Director of the Institute of National Studies of Almaty, Burikhan Nurmukhamedov;
"- congratulated veterans on the Day of the first President of Kazakhstan, wishing them health and longevity.
By order of the head of state, Smolin was appointed chairman of the supreme judicial council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
thus, the exclusive competence of private bailiffs includes the execution of executive documents on recovery in favor of individuals and legal entities (including alimony payments).	thus , the decision on the execution of documents on collection for the benefit of the physical ( including maintenance ) and entities is related to the exclusive competence of the private bailiffs .	0,83
Your President Nursultan Nazarbayev pays special attention to the development of the transport and logistics system.	president nursultan nazarbayev pays great attention to the development of transport and logistics network .	0,83
Meat and dairy preserves, vegetable oils, flour and pasta will be supplied to the affected areas of Tajikistan, "the report said.
Thanks to the Nunn-Lugar program, more than a thousand nuclear facilities have been removed from Kazakhstan, the danger of hundreds of underground radioactive facilities has been eliminated.
firstly, it is obvious that world geopolitics has entered the zone of turbulent development.
in the process of preparation, the terrain of the troops flowed, worked out an air landing, detaining weapons and fighting behind enemy lines.
As part of the program in 2015, more than 5 thousand start-up and working entrepreneurs took part in training courses.
The forum will be attended by Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of Kazakhstan Baglan Maylybayev, Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Aslan Sarinzhipov, Deputy Chairman of Kha - Head of the Secretariat.
Today, the Uzbek side confirmed that Kazakhstan receives agreed volumes of water.
issues of the Eurasian Economic Union were discussed during the meeting.
in turn, he brought a powerful base, law enforcement and judicial systems to gradually implement the reforms outlined in the public service, and strengthened the idea of ​ ​ further developing the institutions of a single nation and civil society. "
cars are equipped with modern technologies (cashless payment, accounting documentation, integration with mobile applications), which will improve the quality of passenger service.
In addition, it will be a good opportunity for the state, what additional sources of growth can be developed in the context of the celebration of other economic sectors, "the expert said.
We urge the people of Kazakhstan to support the initiative of the deputies to hold early elections to the Majilis of Parliament. we appeal to kazakhstanis to support the initiative of the deputies on holding snap elections of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels .
After the meeting, university professors went to seven districts of the region, dealing with all areas of agriculture.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the Eurasian group will support a number of social and infrastructure projects in the region.	eurasian group annually concludes memoranda on significant socio-economic projects in aktobe , karaganda , kostanai and pavlodar regions .	0,83
"center-west" is the path with which negotiations are being conducted.
as soon as this document is ready, the construction of the plant will begin.
:: Togzhanov "Kazakh land, Kazakh people have always welcomed guests.
they should hold various events, forums and actions.
you should attach great importance to their employment, "said Berdybek Saparbayev to the heads of educational institutions.
from us, about 300 representatives.
the council advises the Supreme Court on improving Kazakh justice.
The delegation of the missile technology control regime got acquainted with the activities of the state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of export control, as well as in the field of work of the aerospace committee for the development of space activities in Kazakhstan.
The company, called samhat, produces special-purpose shoes using the technology of leading factories in Russia, Belarus, Turkey, Kazakhstan, England and Eastern Europe.
in the morning in the Vienna branch e. idriss, Deputy Secretary-General, Director General of the Vienna Steam Division, Head of the Office on Drugs and Crime (steam ecb) with Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency Yuri Fedotov, Director General (aeha) yukiya amano director general (unido) and comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty organization (hawk) the executive secretary of the lassine held meetings with zerbo, and also took part in a photo contest dedicated to the exhibition "expo 2017" as part of the general conference of unido, which is being held in Vienna.
If there is a terminal for vegetables and fruits in Saryagash district, we can get our own and Uzbek at the same price. if saryagash district has fruits and vegetables terminal , we can deliver it across kazakhstan .
According to him, today parliament deputies are taking steps that will allow the formation of a new, competitive and professionally strong parliament.
high quality of services.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that such a process began with the implementation of confidence-building measures in central Asia.
At this event, it is planned to discuss issues of most interest to entrepreneurs, in particular, related to their involvement in the criminal process, registration of inspections, the role of the prosecutor's office in protecting the rights of entrepreneurs.
Early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will allow in the future to develop anti-crisis measures and implement the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," said Oleg Chernyshov, a representative of the civil alliance.
As you know, the project will provide a stable resource base for the oil and gas industry.
In the final speech, the head of the congress secretariat noted that the summit offers politicians and religious leaders an effective platform for finding common mechanisms to solve the problems of peace and stability in the world.
If, on election day, the voter cannot appear at the polling station due to health, disability, the reason for caring for a sick family member, as well as in a remote and inaccessible place where the polling station is not created, he has the right to apply to the precinct election commission with a statement on the organization of voting "at home."
each of us has a great responsibility for the future of the country.
in my opinion, the composition of the government is very competently selected.
Following the meeting, the heads of government called for further strengthening of bilateral and multilateral effective partnership.
work was carried out on the formation of a buo structure for the management of special economic zones in the Republic of Kazakhstan, taking into account international experience with the involvement of international development ireland.
this phenomenon was recognized by jangeldin himself, who was one of the authors of the legend.
During the conversation, the foreign guest praised the level of the international conference "religion against terrorism" held today.
In accordance with article 59, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I decide:	in accordance with the paragraph 2 of the article 59 of the constitution of kazakhstan i decree :	0,83
Megan McCabe fitzgerald - law specialist	megan mccabe fitzgerald - legal elections specialist ( usa )	0,83
the result is good, but when we went on sale, there was a problem.	73 % of equipment is ready , by the end of march there will be 100 % .	0,83
As part of the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, compulsory health insurance will be introduced in Kazakhstan from 2017.
In his opinion, the updated deputy corps should legally cover the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan.
however, according to the minister, the data on mutual trade do not correspond to the potential of cooperation.
As raw materials, emissions of railway facilities in Almaty are used, "the report said.
The Secretary of State noted that in a few days the day of gratitude established by the decree of the head of state will be celebrated by the people of Kazakhstan for the first time.
the plant is engaged in the production of electronic optical devices for night and day vision, thermal sights, optical sights, electronic planes, stabilized remote control of the combat module and infrared optics.
The results of the audit showed that in the field of technical, vocational and postgraduate education there are a number of issues that have not been fully resolved. the results of the audit showed that in the sphere of technical , vocational and post-secondary education there are a number of problems that have not been fully resolved .
in order to ensure their sustainable and quality education, the necessary structure of education was built and it was formed by the Higher School of Public Policy of Nazarbayev University, the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the country, as well as regional training centers.
Member States commended the implementation of the Lima Declaration on Inclusive and Sustainable Development, adopted at the last general conference in 2013, which laid the foundation for sustainable development goal No. 9 of the 2030 Development Agenda.
holding enterprises use renewable energy sources, carry out energy-saving measures, improve uranium production and processing technologies, optimize the standards of specific costs of chemical reagents and energy resources.
this method allows you to observe the necessary level of aviation safety, identify passengers registered via the Internet, but not arriving on the flight.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that there are many Muslim countries in the world that live in peace and harmony of different religions and various cultural figures.
Activities or projects implemented as part of the celebration of the anniversary of independence should be aimed at strengthening national values, forming a patriotic feeling, informing the population about the achievements of the state, "the deputy akim of the region emphasized.
The need to further strengthen trade and economic relations between the EU and the region was noted.
I can say with complete confidence that these elections have shown great progress. i can say with confidence that these elections have made a great progress .
to do this, we cooperate with allergologists and nutritionists, the Ministry of Health and Social Development.
The main goal of the concept is to eliminate all inequalities in education, as well as to consider the issues of free implementation of general access and primary education. the main purpose of the convention is to eliminate all kinds of discrimination in education and to declare compulsory , accessible , free primary education .
subsidizing the interest rate on loans within the first direction, placing guaranteed funds in the second level bank for the purpose of subsequent lending to the business.
the building has recreation rooms, a medical office, a gym, a warehouse for storing personal belongings, technical rooms and specially equipped rooms for students with disabilities.
According to the Vice Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the state pays great attention to housing and communal services, significant funds are allocated for the implementation of the program aimed at updating the industry.
Expo 2017 for Asia and the Pacific. "
in this context, the Tokayev supported the efforts of the United Arab Emirates to strengthen interreligious and intercultural harmony.
and for candidates for deputies of maslikhats you can vote only within your constituency, "said the secretary of the Central Election Commission.
Note that this agreement was reached as part of the visit to Tokyo of the President of the White House "Center for International Programs."
- Now Kazakhstan should carry out de-dollarization so that the dollar does not affect its economy.
we must create conditions for this, as well as attract personnel to rural areas, "the akim said.
To date, so many weapons have accumulated that can strike. today , there are many risks to control storage of nuclear weapons .
nurmakhanbet moldalyul isaev from the post of deputy prosecutor general of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The French diplomat noted the high potential of public-private partnership to expand mutual cooperation.
In addition, a supermarket customer can personally send a package to any region of Kazakhstan.
we invite lawyers to participate in arbitration disputes.
According to the expert, the main idea of ​ ​ the initiative is to improve the state of the population and strengthen the state.
Also, the relevant public councils began work in the akimats of all regions and cities of the capital and Almaty.
a draft resolution on the registration of the party list was sent for consideration. we are to consider draft resolution on the party list registration .
The Swiss side expressed interest in developing cooperation in the field of accounting and auditing, as well as in issues of parallel import and management of property rights on a collective basis.
In particular, at the summit, Kazakhstan's work in this area is most noticeable. the results of the kazakhstani enterprises and the implementation of policy were assessed positively , " - he said .
Theoretical attitudes include the assessment of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
today, many states began to fall after a lack of internal understanding, "he said.
now geopolitically, there are economic stresses and pressure on the state of some states.
In addition, Minister Zh.Aitzhanova, on behalf of Prime Minister Karim Massimov, was awarded with letters of appreciation for his support for Aderholt Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, "the statement said.
reduced procurement, State-owned coperative and financial costs.
I want to thank the Baiterek holding for its contribution to the implementation of the state program for housing construction in the region.
The chairman of the parliamentary assembly of senators held bilateral meetings with the pedro agramunt, the deputy of the Bundestag of Germany axel fisher, the Spanish deputy Jordi Chukla, as well as with the deputy of the Bulgarian National Assembly Hamid Hamid.
Recall that N.Nazarbayev in Soviet times decided to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
At the expense of the National Fund through the Development Bank of Kazakhstan in the manufacturing industry in the amount of 6.3 billion. Tenge loans were received by 8 large business entities of the region.
to solve this problem, I propose the formation of a human capital development fund under the auspices of the United Nations.
In addition, an ECE decision was announced "On the approval of the list of issues for the mandatory holding of a meeting on technical regulation within the framework of the advisory committee of the board, on the use of sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary measures before the ECE board or decision."
Tomorrow will be at polling stations and we will be at the opening and closing of elections, "said Alexander dudko, an international observer of Belarus.
the main task of the chamber's experts was to eliminate administrative barriers. we have created the council for the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs .
Timur Kozdaliev was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Armenia;
many questions about campaigning on Internet networks. there are a lot of questions about the campaign especially social networks .
Observers are provided with all conditions for unhindered monitoring of all stages of electoral processes. at present , all polling stations located in the territory of kazakhstan , have started their work .
they will see in our experience an example of wisdom, constructive actions and steadfast strength before any difficulties, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
We presented home appliances to pupils and employees of orphanages, "said Colonel Alexei Skornyakov, deputy head of the main department of the military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
funds received from the charity evening are fully transferred to the Voluntary Society of Mercy Foundation.
we celebrate the 24th anniversary of our independence.
I believe that this is fair, "said the Nazarbayeva dariga.
In the future, the work to prevent volume reduction was considered at today's meeting, "said B. Sagintayev.
Among the key points of negotiations with the leaders of the European Council and the European Commission, the President of Kazakhstan called the lifting of the ban on flights to Europe by a number of Kazakhstani airlines and the simplification of the visa regime for citizens of Kazakhstan.
As the Prime Minister of Cambodia, I know that we have agreed to sign a memorandum, "he said."
In turn, the representative of the kazgrain group of companies noted that "due to the investments of the fund, the group of companies purchases wheat to existing elevators, further intensifies production in business, as well as expanding the range of products: national cutting, confectionery and feed, which will allow companies to significantly fully process wheat.
the signing of this document will expand the legal framework between the two countries and intensify the exchange of information in the interests of national security of States.
in recent years, it was possible to change the bilateral trade and economic architecture of Belarus and Kazakhstan.
According to him, the basis of these changes was the competition of legislation and policy of Kazakhstan, the work was divided into two stages.
Within the framework of the meeting, the section "Prospects for the development of roads, the state of the international transport market of the Republic of Kazakhstan" was held.
This is very small, given our potential, rich in oil, "said U. Karabalin.
Kazakhstan is constantly contributing to the strengthening of the non-proliferation order.
we do not have large reserves of oil and gas, so we save energy.
in addition, Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO and the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will open up great opportunities for Israeli businessmen in the EAEU market.
this will help doctors prescribing medicines to receive timely information about new registered medicines, about their reverse effect, confirm decisions on setting drug rates, prescribe an effective course of treatment, "said Larisa Pak, acting Chairman of the Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities Control Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I hope there will be the same coincidence in our city.
all found objects indicate the presence of a special culture in the region.
the third is the consideration of development opportunities within the framework of ahco, as well as the development of a mechanism for financing entrepreneurial activities aimed at reducing the effects of climate change, "he said.
According to the report of the Republic of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks as of 22.12.2015 opened 184 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 84.7 billion tenge, including 33.8 billion tenge for money legalization with payment of 3.1 billion tenge fee to the budget.
The reporting meeting was attended by the Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan and the State Inspector of the Presidential Administration.
Orders "Glory" I and II degrees, "abyn" i, ii and III degrees and the medal "For Courage" were awarded to a group of military personnel and law enforcement agencies.
in the west of the country there are many objects of cultural and environmental tourism.
summing up the meeting, the chairman of the supreme court thanked the experts of the Venice commission for the ongoing examination of the draft new code.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), due to low physical activity, there is a complication of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer, and is also the fourth important factor in deadly danger in the world.
in Kazakhstan, it is planned to increase the number of such public receptions to 16.
In a store called "Made in Kazakhstan" or "универmag.kz," more than 30 manufacturers offer their products.
currently in Kazakhstan in the field of organizing the filming of the feature film "Genghis Khan and the Jerusalem Series" musicals and the working title 2016-2017s. agreements have been signed.
It is worth noting that this project was developed and put into operation at the initiative of the akim of the region in order to stabilize bread prices in the region.
In addition, at the Tadeh-2016 exhibition, the plant will show the scheme of a modern multiple launch rocket system of a "wide range."
Within two weeks, participants of "esor astana tutorial 2015" will listen to lectures by well-known specialists of Greece, Belgium, Switzerland, Russia and Kazakhstan in the field of radiology.
It is worth noting that more than 1.5 thousand economic structures with the participation of German capital, including joint ventures, are registered in Kazakhstan.
the created oncological clinic will improve the positive dynamics of oncological indicators. the commissioning of this clinic will improve the positive dynamics of indicators of cancer .
tell about the work done during this time of the Central Election Commission.
in this regard, the parties noted with satisfaction that the transfer of the research reactor vvr-k to fuel based on low enriched uranium (abu) after the conversion of its complex structures was recently completed at the Kazakhstan Institute of Nuclear Physics.
25 electoral districts for the election of deputies of the city maslikhat, 278 polling stations were formed in the capital, of which 213 polling stations located in the city and 65 polling stations are located in offices of foreign countries, 35 polling stations are located in places of temporary residence of citizens - these are stationary medical institutions, military units, pre-trial detention centers and temporary detention centers, "said I. Albyrov.
V.Mihailov noted that the value of this book is that it was written by Kazakhstanis.
funds will be allocated through second-level banks together with the Development Fund and regional administrations.
Deputy Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan cited Almaty region as an example.
Also, in connection with the current world crisis, the upcoming elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats save time and budget funds.
special rank of lieutenant general of the state security service of Kurenbek Amantaev;
this will attract the world's best energy-saving technologies.
Currently, the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region published a tender notice for grant financing of the program "Brzhk 2020."
at the exhibition, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany bolts nusipps and the Chairman of the German Bundestag Tourism Committee.
timely implementation of Nursultan Nazarbayev's initiatives in the field of integration would contribute to the delay of the transit period.
The interlocutors discussed a wide range of issues of mutual interest, exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
Karim Massimov stressed that Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO should be a clear signal to the international community that we are truly committed to a stable and predictable partnership with the most favorable investment and business climate in the region.
The Order of Friendship of the II degree was awarded to the cosmonaut of Roscosmos, record holder for time in space Gennady Padalka.
yerlan sydykov is a socio-political figure, we know him as the rector of the university named after L. Humilev. Yerlan sydykov - a major public politician.
N.Nazarbayev noted that the use of funds of the National Fund for current expenses should be stopped.
Also during the large-scale event, a video was shown about the investment climate of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, he noted that the economic problem remains a global issue not only in Kazakhstan, but also in a world that requires special attention for humanity.
The Head of State noted the fruitful work of the Parliament to ensure the implementation of five institutional reforms.
this year we celebrated the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, today we talked a lot about the world economic crisis, the fall of gins in different countries, about various wars and terrorism.
in this regard, the third pillar should immediately implement preventive measures. and so , the third , we need to unite all the management and start hard work .
raised 5 daughters and 6 sons, 35 grandchildren, 36 great-grandchildren.
According to him, special attention is paid to financing projects.
A. Nosirov noted that "we intend to cover an extensive geography, to cover not only the Akmola region, but also other countries.
the city is actively implementing the program "Nұrly zhol."
During the visit, the Governor noted that the head of state set the task of developing small business in the countryside.
I urge domestic producers to update their activities and take part in these events, "he said.
One of the most important factors of mass sports is the involvement of people with disabilities in physical education. one of the most important factors of the mass sports is involving of persons with disabilities to do physical training and sports .
Head of State Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev said that "youth is our future!"
we must improve the professional standard - this is a technical task for colleges and universities in order for them to train specialists who can meet the requirements of the employer, "the minister explained.
March 15, on Modernization Day, birth certificates will be solemnly awarded in the maternity hospitals of the region.
Therefore, the implementation of the message will improve bilateral relations, "he said.
Currently, construction work has been completed here, workshops are being installed.
or transfer the facilities to the private sector.
this concerns the development of the economic complex, the implementation of common democratic values ​ ​ of the rule of law, heights of national honor, "said the Russian expert.
The event was attended by the chairman of the regional court B. Ametov, the chairmen of the judicial boards, judges of city and district courts, the management of the branch of the Union of Judges and the court administrator.
Idrissov told the minister that Kazakhstan will never forget about support from the country.
The plans of 2016-2017 include the construction of a hotel and a lighted ski track for year-round work, the akim of the region said.
In addition, the "obereg" occupies a special place in working with Ukrainian youth.
I wish the organizers of the event creative success, "said the deputy director of the National Museum of Kazakhstan.
this is a great test for our state, our people.
I think that the current situation requires fundamental changes. i believe that the current situation requires major changes .
One of the most noticeable can be called Sergey Samoilov, who three times showed high performance at a distance of 100 and 400 meters freestyle and 100 meters swimming on the back.
During the period of cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan since 1992, the World Bank invested more than 6 billion 800 million dollars. the new agreement clarifies the purpose , status , privileges and immunities of offices and the world bank staff in the republic of kazakhstan , " the vice - minister said .
By the end of April of this year, it is planned to introduce a bill to the government and adopt by the end of the year so that it enters into force in 2017, "he said.
we must understand deeply the meaning of justice. the court is intended to prevent the destruction of the balance .
Kazakhstan still has a clear anti-crisis plan.
- The main direction of the fund's work is the scientific direction.
pilots from different countries come for training from an Atlantic helicopter.
Considering that election observation contributes to the strengthening of national and international confidence in the elections, Kazakhstan, fulfilling its duties, opened the institution of observers in the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament and maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for March 20, 2016.
listened with great enthusiasm to the report of the head of state on the anti-nuclear samit. it was listened with the much attention at the anti-nuclear summit .
In general, the country should have national qualification requirements, "he said.
the theme of the exhibition is "the energy of the future."
was in the city election commission, visited polling stations. also he visited the electoral commissions of karaganda and temirtau .
that the EU is the largest investor in Kazakhstan.
In a matter of days, we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the country's independence. dear kazakhstanis , the next we will reach the 25th year of independence .
b. nurymbet.
Thus, the mission will include more than 240 observers from the CIS countries, "he said.
The theme of the exhibition expo-2017 "Energy of the future.
each of them achieved success in regional, district public life.
Recently, we have seen the impact of the global crisis on Kazakhstan.
we always extended a helping hand to those in need.
At the suggestion of the deputies, it is necessary to focus on work on new programs and prepare new effective measures within the framework of the Plan of the Nation. the initiative , put forward by the deputies of the majilis to hold snap elections , is aimed at implementation of new programs .
According to Akim Sko, in the international transport flow, the North Kazakhstan region also contributes to the unification of Kazakhstan, which is an important transit transport corridor between the Russian Federation and the Central Asian regions.
more than two thousand people gathered at the meeting.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 105 representatives of foreign media from 25 states as of February 25, 2016.
the role of the first and appellate courts, where many cases will be heard, will be significantly strengthened here.
According to the department, 3.1 thousand tons of goods worth 7.4 million tenge were imported at a low rate.
The new modern base has expanded judicial protection.
During the event, applicants will be able to undergo an interview with potential employers and get information about the possibility of retraining and balancing new professions.
In addition, since the beginning of the year, disability, scholarships, social benefits for people who have lost income have been increased by 25%, "the head of state said.
The event was attended by representatives of German departments and ministries, German diplomats, political scientists, experts and journalists.
Today, a new type of services is available to customers of the kazpost of the capital, and in the future such centers will be opened in other cities of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the meeting discussed issues of improving the system of subsidies, increasing the production of organic food products, attracting investments in the agricultural industry and bringing agro-industrial products to the Russian and Chinese markets.
49 objects are being built on the territory of the city and the district, that is, 250 km of roads, 1 underground and 1 ground crossings were put into operation.
The meeting heard reports of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, as well as akimats of Almaty, Zhambyl, West Kazakhstan regions on the work on the use and promotion of state symbols.
the award of regional winners will be carried out as part of the "thousand children" project in the following areas: "oratory," painter "and" native land. "
Within the framework of the memorandum signed with the company, an educational complex will be built in the freedom district, including a linguistic gymnasium with 1,200 seats, a boarding school with 100 seats, a physics and mathematics school with 1000 seats, a kindergarten with 200 seats and a hostel for schoolchildren and teachers.
we Azerbaijanis, as brothers, are watching the development of your country.
During this event, the head of the domestic foreign ministry was elected head of the working group to discuss current challenges to peace and security.
According to V. Yurkin, the new book includes a unique biography of the head of Kazakhstan and a large-scale state service for the radical change of his republic.
this deadline is sometimes unlikely for human research.
those who prevent the implementation of the changes will be relieved of their posts, "the head of state said.
The main task at the moment is to form the correct lists of voters for each polling station so that every citizen of the country enjoys his constitutional right.
In general, the implementation of Nұrly zhol projects will ensure the opening of 400 thousand jobs in the coming years, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in addition, these elections will be based on national consolidation in the face of economic difficulties and will achieve a new development of Kazakhstan.
I am confident that the reforms carried out in Kazakhstan will be successfully implemented.
It presents the national dishes of 22 ethnocultural associations.
and in the second phase of the project, a training visit of Kazakh civil servants to Singapore is planned to study best practices in human resource development.
- We plan to open another furniture salon.
He also noted that Afghans are helping to master professions from the best universities in the country.
this is a complex of economic development, the formation of general democratic values ​ ​ of the rule of law, the realization of national status.
The publication not only outlined the content of the discussions and the results of the congress, but also demonstrated the impressive mood of the meeting in the capital.
young people are an important part of a promising society that is relevant to all spheres of social, environmental and social life of the country.	the fact that the head of state every year reveals the urgent and long-term work plans for country 's leadership gives a clear idea on the further development and increasing the well-being of every citizen of kazakhstan ,  kulikov said .
making payments to the budget through the e-government portal was significantly simplified thanks to the launch of the "one-bias payment" service.
It is worth noting that under the new legislation on charity in the implementation of the instructions of the head of state, the national action kha "Caravan of Charity" traditionally starts today.
our elections have become a historical act that strengthens Kazakhstan's identity.
bakytzhan sagintayev and ramil hasanov stressed the importance of further developing the transit potential of the participating countries, including the trans-Caspian international transport route.
the document provides for the participation of scientists and specialists of the Institute of Astrophysics named after V.V. Fesenkov in the preparation of educational and scientific programs for the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics of excavations, recently work has been updated there to train students in the specialty "astronomy and astrophysics."
this is a clear system of harmonization with all processes in the economy. after the transition period , the universities will issue their own diplomas .
aa. Idrissov, stressing the important role of the UN in the fight against terrorism, drew attention to the importance of the prompt adoption of the World Convention against Double Terrorism initiated by the President of Kazakhstan and the prompt creation of a global anti-terrorism coalition (network) with the support of the parties.
One of the thematic objects opening the theme of the exhibition will be the pavilion "Zone of Best Practices."
this allowed me to prove myself in many large projects, "the maestro concluded.
It should be noted that the Kazagro holding company has been conducting business cooperation with enterprises of the Netherlands Kingdom for several years.
In turn, travelers of the Kyzylorda region will be able to see interesting places in the Aktobe region, visit the boron mountains and memorial complexes "kobylan batyr," "abat baitak," rhythm-turgai reserve.
this is a very important award for every scientist.
according to him, the eek was formed as an independent and supreme national body.
In addition, he asked the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to support the situation of the national Abda.
the station provides the greenhouse with water, electric and thermal energy.
Recall that as part of the implementation of the 4th step of the "100 Specific Steps" National Plan, a mandatory probationary period is provided for those who first entered the civil service according to the 3 + 3 formula.
According to the next step, in 2017, students in the second, fifth, seventh, ninth grades will switch to a 5-day school week.
The council meeting is a platform for direct dialogue between investors working in Kazakhstan and the leaders of the countries.
the most important thing in life is education, high professionalism and loyalty to your homeland, I urge you to remember this.
As a result of the negotiations, the parties signed a memorandum of understanding between the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Prosecutor General's Office of Malaysia.
At the end of the meeting, Aida Kurmangalieva, on behalf of the team, thanked the author of the coat of arms for participating in the solemn meeting and outlined interesting moments when creating one of the state symbols of Kazakhstan.
secondly, there was a certain quota limit.
citizens belonging to this category must have a diploma of education, who can master the professions of an administrator, guide guide, clerk, confectioner, cook, electric welder, etc.
On the first day of the working trip, the Secretary of State took part in an interregional seminar on the topic: "Secular society and high spirituality - the key to unity and harmony."
In addition, according to the author, the combined elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels will save 4.8 billion rubles from the budget.
parliamentary hearings are held in the Senate on the topic: "Improving the competitiveness of the domestic agricultural sector in the conditions of eo and peace."
members of the council were given the first approved examination of the civil case, "- said k.mam.
According to Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, first of all, diversification of industrialization is not a rapid trend, it is a long-term goal, which depends on many factors and takes time.
"The course of our" manat "has moved to controlled free circulation.
at the same time, the chairman of the constitutional council drew attention to the fact that early elections are held within two months after the date of early termination of the powers of parliament or majilis of parliament.
In the potential of our country, he is included in the composition, "read the address of the Prime Minister n.nazarbayev.
first of all, in the field of oil production, coal production and ferrous metallurgy.
It is worth noting that the Kazakhstan exposition presents national costumes and traditional household products of the Kazakh people.
Together with representatives of the public council, we held several meetings.
today, indifference and corruption have become the wolf of society. nowadays the main problem is serious public indifference towards corruption .
its volume will gradually grow, so that in 2017 state contributions will amount to 4%, in 2018 - 5%, in 2023 - 6%, from 2024 - 7%.
elimination of barriers to unification of small agricultural producers, creation of conditions for development of organic production, application of advanced selection achievements for farmers.
It is worth noting that the new kindergarten is the second and current 15th kindergarten, which opened in the Alakol district over the past three weeks.
Special groups from 10 districts hold meetings with residents of remote settlements of the region, meetings of the round table, public reception rooms, and carry out explanatory work.
first, the current global crisis is a massive one.
To date, the company has begun spring field work.
According to the head, now the patriotism of each citizen is being checked.
In turn, Jamal Khan announced the planned trade mission of Pakistan's business representatives in Almaty and Astana in May this year.
According to him, the main innovations will be introduced into four articles.
K.Tokayev spoke at the meeting in a narrow circle, which discussed the prospects of interaction of inter-parliamentary organizations on topical issues on the international agenda.
currently, citizens are actively working on the land, but, unfortunately, most of the land is destroyed, and if people get it into ownership, then the attitude to the land will be different, "said K. Suleimenov.
in particular, the transition to a three-stage judicial system, the updating of procedural legislation, the system of selection and training of judges, the creation of a specialized court for investors and an international advisory council.
Recall, earlier he wrote with. Zhubanov and l. played the role of aidar in the opera Hamidi "Abay."
K. Tokayev called on parliamentarians to refuse to participate in inter-parliamentary forums, since "inter-parliamentary relations should remain an important channel of communication between peoples."
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
In particular, an order was adopted at the technical regulation board related to the development, approval, changes and adoption of general sanitary and epidemiological and hygienic requirements and procedures in the sea, the press service of the department reports.
I am grateful to the state for the assistance provided to us, "he said. Ryazanov.
duty stations, employees of the reference bureau, announcers will begin the second half of the year.
part of the next report will focus on our relationship, and we will consider how to effectively develop it in the future. "
The agreement with Macedonia was signed in the capital on August 2, 20102, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
world trade is declining, stock markets are falling.
according to the head of the department, on average, 20 thousand residents of the republic account for one private bailiff.
Semipalatinsk engineering signed a contract with representatives of the white "mcm pte ltd."
the chemical industry is very important for us, a full-fledged agricultural complex is being created.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed that the production of barite concentrate is very important for kazakhstan .	0,84
in any party programs there should be ideas to strengthen the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, "he said. abdykarimov.
in the absence of an appropriate candidate, the competition is held for all public servants.
energy and efficient resource processing. one of the main priorities for the ebrd is energy and resource efficiency .
It is necessary to start work from the nearest areas, "said B. Sagintayev.
This event was attended by members of the committee, representatives of competent state bodies, the community of centrists, scientific organizations, the press service of the commission said.
According to the election results, the Nұr Otan party won 6,183,757 votes or 82.2% of the voters voted for the main party.
Duyen of Honorary Consuls of Kazakhstan in Austria, Nebel familiarized the participants with the work of the Honorary Consulate headed by him on the implementation of the goals to deepen and expand relations between Kazakhstan and Austria, including on interregional cooperation between the East Kazakhstan region and the federal land of Styria.
in particular, called for increased joint work at the international level on children's issues.
It should be noted that these days in Almaty representatives of the international federation of student sports pass inspection observations.
Given the strong formation of a dynamic sector of women's entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to involve the female community in economic activities. It is necessary to activate women in the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan, as well as in the anti-crisis programs adopted by the Government of Kazakhstan, "he said.
Note that e. Pauli and 7 party representatives unanimously joined the party's political council.
the general director of the caddb, in turn, appealed to the E.Dyrysov with an appeal to visit the international exhibition and conference of special forces sofex-2016.
as world practice shows, there are no universal standards and recommendations in the field of identity and unity.
the services of our church are similar to Byzantine churches.
Among them are the lowest indicators of the global human development index, low access to educational and health services.
at the stage of these tasks, economic situations are occurring in the world, specialists of the primary format are needed, which will be selected through early elections to the Majilis.
According to E. Balashov, CEO of Kazakhaltyk, modernization in this institution is ongoing.
As M.Kazbekova noted, the head of state played a big role.
According to him, according to these changes, agricultural land under state ownership will be available to legal entities and individuals of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He also noted that Poland supports the policy of peace and harmony pursued in Kazakhstan.
The event was organized by the republican public association "Council of Generals" with the support of the Embassy of Kazakhstan and Russia, the Hero of the Soviet Union Foundation.
Nurlan Musataevich Seytimov appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Tajikistan;
The party "Nұr Otan" should be represented by representatives of various professions.
we engage the local business community to carry out our work and participate in public-social orders. we have developed a commercial project that will help the fund to reach a level of self-sufficiency .
this year we will show such promising projects as the modernization of products that we now produce, as well as avionics, armored vehicles.
The event was attended by members of the Council of Mothers.
According to the chairman of the meeting, the Netherlands is an important foreign policy and the main economic partner of Kazakhstan in Europe, as well as the largest investor in the Dutch economy.
convex edge in circle.
In particular, today it has decreased by 20-25%.
international measures of a global scale will strengthen ties.
In total, more than 2 thousand people took part in the filming of the picture.
the number of general education schools increases annually in the capital.
Speaking at the collegiate meeting at the level of the ministry, Abdikalikova noted that in the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" Head of State N.Nazarbayev set the country the task to enter the top thirty states of the world.
these instruments should ensure all fiscal procedures.
for it to be successful, questions must be raised within the framework of the expo.
During the visit, the Governor congratulated all those present on the Christmas holiday.
Also, bronze medals were won in the team sprint.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan once again congratulated women on the upcoming holiday, wished them success and success in all their endeavors.
this step is very appropriate, because our country is on the verge of new reforms and opportunities.
According to the press service of the Prime Minister, the issue of fulfilling the instructions of the head of state on anti-crisis measures at a government meeting on February 10, 2016 will be considered on the agenda.
At the same time, this is a great opportunity that is given to other parties in order to demonstrate their abilities in the newly formed parliament at a new stage in the construction of the state, "he said.
within the framework of the activities of the public council, it was proposed to create two commissions in the areas of activity of the ministry (in the health and social and labor spheres).
in a difficult economic situation, the country's leadership relies on measures to develop the political system and state structures. at the turning point , in the period of political and economic changes , the government often takes such measures , and it fits the logic of the political system and government structures .
showing an active civic position, interfering in public life, Kazakhstanis can contribute to the political life of the country.
Taking into account the growing demand in the automotive industry in the economy of Kazakhstan and its significance, an automobile cluster will be created.
the Astana Forum has witnessed the dynamic development of economic actors in emerging markets and developing countries.
I think that the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as elections to maslikhats of all levels will allow to teach all citizens ethics, become a high political culture of the people and develop the traditions of democracy, "said L. Geitzman.
And over the years, as part of the project "Construction of 350 medical outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and clinics," 24 health facilities have been completed and inaugurated.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan Daulet Batrashev familiarized the conference participants with the main principles of five institutional reforms, which are Kazakhstan's response to the challenges of our time and imply taking our country to a new stage of development in all areas.
Also during the meeting, the issue of increasing cargo flow from Turkey to Central Asia and Kazakhstan was considered.
we have completed the next stage of modernization of the poultry farm, which is aimed at increasing the volume of eggs. we have completed another stage of modernization of the poultry farm , focused on an increase in egg production .
The event was attended by representatives of Italian institutional bodies, well-known public figures, cultural and scientific figures, teachers and professors of various higher educational institutions in Italy, experts on religious issues, as well as representatives of the Italian garden.
Recently, a summit of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation was held in Istanbul, attended by the leaders of 57 States.
As part of the event, the heads of all branches of the company visited war veterans, presented gifts and provided material assistance.
Recall that last year at the meeting of the commission, the list of young men from the country included nominations "Kazakh traditional Dombrian art" and "traditional knowledge and skills in the manufacture of yurts," presented together with Kyrgyzstan.
due to the irresponsibility of contractors, some facilities will not be put into operation in a timely manner, "said the head of the region.
today there is a law on how representatives of public councils are elected, "said D. Nazarbayev.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 10 rental houses were built for 20 families in line for housing.
Today, representatives of the relevant structures of the Governor's Office of the capital and the government of the Penza region in the field of health, education, culture and tourism will spend working days.
That is, a new sports center will appear in the Alatau district of the city in the future, "said the head of the sports and tourism department of Almaty, Nail Nurov.
Recall, on January 20, the head of state N.Nazarbayev signed a decree on holding early elections in the Majilis on March 20, 2016.
the meeting does not change radically.
work is also continuing to develop the base of local producers.
increasing housing construction
In addition, according to him, cardinal practical preventive measures have been revised.
This agreement was reached in the framework of an international seminar with the participation of representatives of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan these days.
I sincerely congratulate you on the coming new years! i heartily congratulate you on the coming new year .
This type of services is developing dynamically in the region.
the congress is held with the participation of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
According to observers from the CIS, work is underway on the ground to clarify the lists of voters.
For each of the five reforms, a road map has been drawn up, and we are consistently implementing them.
in the field, no differences were observed between the participants in the exercises, despite the linguistic features, we all worked as one team, "said the soldier of the Armed Forces, David Dalton.
This is an "eternal country" that we can perpetuate and develop.
Last year, we commissioned plastic products, metal and special pipe products for housing.
the world. The manifesto of the twenty-first century is an important document that gives impetus to the prevention of the creation and development of conflicts.
As the expert suggests, the recruitment of people such as Pakistan and Afghanistan is not excluded in the future.
in the annual message of the president, the task is to strengthen the unity of the people. in the annual address of the president to the people of kazakhstan the head of state sets the task to strengthen the unity of the people .
During this period, sustained political tension was achieved, aimed at dynamically strengthening bilateral ties in a wide range of areas of cooperation. "
After the meeting, Kazakh students held a flash mob in support of an international specialized exhibition.
As the head of the department noted, today the functions and competencies of the Ministry of Energy for the formation of state policy in the field of science development have been formed.
On the feast of Martha, in which all nature was renewed, people always forgave each other's lungs, helped those in need, wished happiness, planted trees and opened their eyes.
they have an organic connection with matters of spirituality and culture.
we covered 303 objects of control, including 12 state bodies and their departments.
"Interaction-2016" with collective rapid response forces in the Russian Federation.
As the speaker noted, the information on the election turnout, in my opinion, remains significant.
these samples can be used to protect the Caspian coast during subsequent refinement, "says Valery spitsyn, general director of Zixto JSC.
Thus, more than 7,000 entrepreneurs were trained, 6,936 entrepreneurs were provided with 11,000 services.
global changes want the state to prepare methods and measures in connection with the changing situation, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
in the coming days, the sections "iron mountain," "river," "fire" are shown.
Modernization of activities should be aimed at developing free competition, "he said.
the country ranks second in the world in ferrochem production.
In this regard, parliamentary elections should be held, and this is timely work, "said D. Verkhoturov.
compared to the previous year, the amount did not change much: the amount remained. compared to the previous year it is not much different : the amount has remained about the same .
in terms of specific elections, for the majority of the population this is optimal according to the legislative deadlines.	however , the exact date is not a question of principle for kazakhstanis ,  shaukenova has explained .
The deputy corps is ready to provide timely support in the development of transport infrastructure, "he said.
all these indicators are considered at a meeting of the commission.
According to the plan of the President of Kazakhstan "100 concrete steps" for the socio-economic development of the city of Kentau in 2016, the volume of gross output for 3 months amounted to 5 billion 67.4 million tenge and amounted to 134% compared to the same period in 2015.
In 2016-2018, it is planned to implement an industrial project for the construction of a plaster plant of the Kazupaktrade limited liability partnership in the village of Bektobe.
During the briefing, it was noted that the negotiations discussed issues of simplifying the process of issuing visas to businessmen for the development of trade relations.
because Kazakhstan has very big strategic plans.
8 people were nominated from the unity party, of which all are women.
We hope that the business council will contribute to the growth of trade and investment. we hope the business council will help to increase the trade turnover and investments between india and kazakhstan .
As A. Mukhambetov noted, in his message, the head of state outlined the use of the public-private partnership mechanism to reduce budget pressure.
there were no violations by the parties, "he said.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany bolat nusipps, deputy of the Bundestag karin strenets, general director of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the city of Schwerin.
we have just witnessed the historic moment of the establishment of the Islamic Food Security Organization. we have just witnessed a historic moment - the creation of the islamic organization for food security .
One of your main directions is the organization of the list of both Kazakhstani and international voters.
In particular, yesterday the president of the country again expressed confidence to us, and now we must justify confidence in our effective work, "the Prime Minister concluded.
this is the number of direct flights, wide Internet access, and so on, "said the investor.
the world knows and supports the reforms we have begun, a hundred steps.
As he noted, today the role of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan becomes relevant every day.
the price is important for buyers, so if the price becomes available, then first of all we choose products created in our country.
in this direction, the head of state announced specific tasks for the coming decade.
The head of the national federation of student sports of Germany felix Arnold noted that the youngest team will be sent to the competition.
The theme of the power of the future makes the exhibition interesting, "he said.
Participating residents were able to find out the amount of sugar, cholesterol in the blood, measure blood pressure and get advice from specialists.
I call on all Kazakhstanis to implement the tasks set forth in the article of the head of state. "
the outcome of economic policy over the past decade is in line with the expected outcome.
Participation in the Universiade is a great experience for young athletes.
Today we see that preparations for the upcoming elections from garden tools are evenly and steadily going, "said S. Salim.
I did not think about the removal of the Kazakh language - my native, "he said.
nurlan musakanovich kashaganov appointed commander of the regional command "east."
we plan to sign a number of agreements.
these measures are caused by the need to support the development of the economy and to create an attractive investment climate.
He also noted that Lithuania is actively preparing for the exhibition and is preparing its development in the field of green technologies.
According to the Foreign Ministry, during the conversation with the management of the company, hipp discussed the possibility and quality of creating joint production of children's food products in Kazakhstan using advanced German technologies, as well as the introduction of environmentally friendly agricultural raw materials into the final products of Kazakhstan through the introduction of cultivation methods.
This year, kazatomprom will continue to work to improve the corporate governance system, improve operational models and business processes, increase efficiency and diversify production.
The deputy chairman of the white board of Kazavtodor temirkhan mendigaliyev announced the development of the road network in Kazakhstan.
budget funds for their creation.
According to him, the main task of the East Kazakhstan regional election headquarters is to comply with election legislation during the elections, ensure fair and transparent holding of elections.
In addition, the project "Integrated Gas Chemical Complex, Phase 1" in 2015-2018 will attract loans under state guarantees in the amount of 556.7 billion tenge.
From September this year, we begin this educational program with a "trade union" holding.
road safety has generally improved in recent years. in recent years , road safety is improving .
he also informed about the main directions, possibilities of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Armenia, the potential of bilateral relations.
someone just understands religion until it entered the first part of religion, which leads to social explosions and disputes, "said Srubakov.
During the visit to checkpoints located on the Kazakh-Chinese border, the First Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the processes on the organization of customs control procedures and other types of state control of goods and vehicles.
as a result of processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, 2016. The number of births in January-March amounted to 99.4 (in January-March 2015 - 92.1) thousand people, which is 2015. 7.9% more than in January-February.
however, in one envelope there was only one sheet with a number.
all products of the plant have quality 99.99.
Now the composition is being prepared.
The President of Kazakhstan has set great tasks for legislative provision and implementation of the message. the president of kazakhstan has set big tasks for the legislative support and realization of the address .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the common positions of the parties on the global agenda and the absence of political contradictions create favorable conditions for the constant development of bilateral dialogue.
is there one characteristic in their character?
you will have regional business development maps.
Photo from the site 24.kz
Photo from the site 365info.kz
Recall that the Nazarbayev University is hosting a solemn event for the release of the second wave of students.
- trademark agreement, place of origin and service mark of the goods,
it is these workers who learn theoretical and practical classes in the automated workplace (ajo), video lessons, written instructions, consultations through videoconferencing and other special training programs.
It is worth noting that the site has 16 different videos dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence.
During the meeting, issues of the bank's activities in Kazakhstan were discussed, as well as prospects for the further development of the financial sector and the banking system of the country.
Secretary of State Abdikalikova noted that the programs are aimed at creating favorable conditions for the health of the population, solving social issues, providing drinking water, increasing the competitiveness of Kazakh products and financial recovery of agriculture.
The House of Scientists allocated from the university budget design estimates and funds for repairs.
Dossayev noted that the anti-crisis plan consists of 2 sections: the formation of a new structural economy within the framework of 5 main priorities determined by the head of state in a message to the people of Kazakhstan dated November 30, 2015; Operational measures to stimulate economic growth and credit.
political parties must nominate educated candidates loyal to their country. "
in particular, the prospects of Aech's participation in energy, water and food security projects, including within the framework of the Islamic organization for food security of the organization of Islamic cooperation, were worked out.
members of the coordinating council unanimously nominated and as chairman.
Speaking to British parliamentarians who are members of all party groups in Kazakhstan, he noted that this year our country celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.
The head of the department a. Mukhamediuly reported on the ongoing work to suppress and suppress the facts of corruption in the Ministry of Culture and Sports and organizations subordinate to it.
It is worth noting that this year Kaspiytaszhol LLP plans to increase production volumes, as well as begin production of all-metal asphalt concrete and emulsion bitumen.
In addition, the meeting was attended by the deputy chairman of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau alik Shpekbayev, the deputy chairman of the national security committee - the director of the border service colonel darzhan dilmanov, the deputy commander-in-chief of the national guard colonel Mukhamedkali sats and the senior assistant to the chief military prosecutor.
We aim to strengthen the common identity and unity of the country through the development of Kazakhstani society on the principles of national values ​ ​ of a single civil, eternal country, based on the mobilization of our achievements over the years of independence, as well as the introduction of trilingual culture.
Following the meeting of the extended hardware council, Deputy Governor of the region Dimitri Garikov informed about the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program for 2015-2019 in terms of infrastructure construction.
The second monument was built in 2012 as part of the 75th anniversary of living in the pentathlon.
at the briefing, a film was shown about the history of the school, the center of education, educational programs implemented within the school, the daily life of pupils, sports and cultural life.
In total, 1,058 students passed the tests, of which 707 were in Kazakh and 351 in Russian.
During the seminar, government officials will consider world standards and principles of analytical work, advanced methods and skills of collecting data and methods of their analysis, study effective questionnaire and interview techniques for collecting information, and basic principles for preparing analytical reports.
firstly, we have already begun the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development, that is, we are creating an economy that will not look only at raw materials.
it is assumed that the transition to international standards will allow creating and developing a market for young companies in Kazakhstan, and as a result of an increase in exploration volumes, new fields will be discovered, "Issekeshev emphasized.
N.Nazarbayev noted that he instructed individuals and legal entities to prepare the bankruptcy process.
During the same period, 765.3 million tenge of investments were attracted to fixed assets, which amounted to 173.1% compared to the same period in 2015.
China, India, Germany, Switzerland and Middle Eastern countries will take part in the event on the energy of the future.
According to him, if we hold two elections together, we still save budget funds.
Also, the CEO of vanhool (Belgium) said that geert van heke will build a bus assembly plant.
only unity and concrete actions can respond to environmental tests, "said V. Kosarev.
The creation of the fund will contribute to strengthening Kazakh-Hungarian relations, where there are great opportunities, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
the world is currently experiencing an economic crisis and is affected by its impact.
the day should be celebrated through charitable actions and assistance to those in need. it is important to mark this day with the charity campaigns and presents to people who need them .
the initiative of deputies to dissolve parliament is a reasonable, timely proposal. i think this decision to dissolve the mmajilis is timely , because the economy is getting worse , the international processes influence us .
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also informed about technologies used in production and further development of the enterprise.
issues of increasing production efficiency and energy saving are priority areas of kazatomprom.
at the national level, it is planned to implement projects in the road industry, health care, education, and the prison system.
It should be noted that for the first time, servicemen of the rifle troops of the armed forces of Kazakhstan will take part in the "safe environment" competition as part of the Army International Games.
Under the union agreement, all eurozone workers are entitled to equal social security.
At the end of the meeting, the participants agreed to continue multilateral cooperation to address the issues of unregulated migration, human trafficking and the protection of the rights of migrants in Central Asia.
Positively reacted to the political economic reform and social development carried out in Kazakhstan.
Another pressing problem of our region is the development of local content.
it will be the shortest route from India to Kazakhstan, as well as through Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the prospects for the development of cooperation between the academy and the Singapore College of Civil Service were discussed.
in the conductor's field - chief conductor of the Astana Opera Theater, Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Alan Boribaev.
this is a good opportunity for young people to study vacancies in the humanitarian field and directly contact several employers.
patricia Scotland highly appreciated the role of the Kazakh prosecutor's office in the implementation of the country's international legal policy and confirmed its intention to deepen cooperation in the legal sphere.
Resource training centres based on the experience of Germany, Singapore, Canada and Austrian countries will be a new area of ​ ​ development in the system of technical and vocational education.
would also save money.
large-scale investments in human capital development should be a priority of the State in social policy.
A number of outcome documents, including a joint statement by heads of Government; border cooperation program of Kazakhstan and China for 2015-2020; draft agreement between the governments of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the PRC on issuing visas for business purposes in the framework of cooperation in the field of industrialization and investment; a protocol and other documents on the implementation of the "trust" project between the Kazakh Design Bureau and the PRC were signed on the Kazakh-Chinese border.
in all global circumstances, only a diversified economy can withstand a global crisis.
the second is reforms.
Preparations for the elections are going well. preparations for the elections , in my opinion , are in the ordinary mode .
therefore, we are implementing an industrialization program.
In 2012, he became a deputy of the majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the v-th convocation according to the party list of the NDP "Nur Otan."
$40 million of the total amount is provided for this purpose.
taking into account the economic efficiency of the working group for both the state and taxpayers, conducts work to study the world experience in the application of sales tax, special tax regimes based on a patent and a simplified declaration for small businesses, develops issues of reforming special tax regimes for peasant and farm farms, and also analyzes existing tax benefits and the mechanism for administering tax and customs processes.
doctors of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" advised patients in district hospital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in his speech noted the significant role of people with working specialties in the development of the country.
The conference was attended by B. Nusips, a deputy of the Bundestag, the Henry Certic, the director of the board of the academy "doyl-ninburg gmbx" bernd antelmann, the head of the German association for the transfer of knowledge and technology walter gauk and the authoritative business community of this region.
- One of the issues discussed on the current economic situation is the financial issue.
V. Nauduzhas noted that bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Lithuania are actively developing.
He noted that terrorism was criticized by the positions of international law and state cooperation.
he makes a great contribution to strengthening Kazakh-German relations.
Recent terrorists in the world and the region, Middle East armed conflicts show the need to improve state measures in the fight against terrorism. recent events in the world and in the region , terrorist attacks in different parts of the world , the ongoing military actions in the middle east talk about the need to improve government response to terrorism .
this holiday has a deep meaning and meaning.
In 2016, the beginning of reforms and the renewal of parliament is a test for society, which shows that the country is mobile and ready for all reforms, "he said.
Specialists of the ministry got acquainted with the state of camel farming in the villages of Suzak, Karagur, Sholakkorgan.
This was announced by Nikolai Bordyuzhi at the final press conference.
we studied the international experience of the Aidu countries, and now we intend to introduce this experience into legislation, "he said.
During the meeting, a working group was created on the basis of the selection of a competition for the creation of a public council and a competition for membership in the public council was announced.
they included the tax authorities of the Zimans, Erbola of the Shaimerden and other famous figures.
According to him, in accordance with the order of the head of state, 567.0 billion tenge was attracted from the national fund in 2016 to support the growth of the economy and the implementation of the infrastructure development plan, in 2017 - 900.0 billion tenge.
programs are aimed at implementing strategic plans. the programs are aimed at the implementation of the strategic plans which set by the enterprises .
this requires bringing structural and institutional reform in line with the Eidu standard.
During the talks, measures to develop a comprehensive strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China were discussed.
they must be real patriots of their country who contribute to the prosperity of the Motherland, "he said.
Between the akimats of the three regions, the ministry and inalca eurasia signed a plan of joint actions on the creation of interregional cooperation in the field of meat livestock breeding, which defines tasks and indicative indicators to increase the potential of meat exports in the regions.
The expert called the main difference in the elections, firstly, early elections, and secondly, the election of deputies of regional, district and city maslikhats.
It should be noted that the first session of the Parliament of Kazakhstan of the VI convocation in the capital was opened by the President of Kazakhstan.
it is this aspect, led by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, that represents an integral environment in the new plan of the nation.
for me, Nazarbayev is the most honest, vivid example of serving the Kazakh people and the state.
We are starting work in the regions, holding a republican seminar-meeting today, "said K. Turgankulov.
The volume of housing construction at the expense of state funds in the region in 2015 increased 3.5 times, and housing construction in Kyzylorda - 8 times.
According to the parliamentarians present at the meeting, the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan to hold an international conference in the eao-eo format will speed up the negotiation process on the creation of a free trade zone with the European Union.
Together, we rejoice in success, and in difficult times - to each other, "said N. Nazarbayev.
accordingly, investments in fixed assets and tax revenues to the budget, the volume of construction work decreased.
As for the aggravation of the economic situation due to the fall in energy prices, the President of Kazakhstan has developed a responsible method in this regard. in this matter the president and the government have developed several scenarios .
thanks to the harmony of intentions and desires, our independence flourishes. thanks to the unity of thoughts , our sovereignty is inviolable for many years .
at the same time, special attention will be paid to increasing the revenue side of the budget and improving the efficiency of tax administration.
life and poetry, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
The Kazakh delegation took an active part in the five interactive round tables and held meetings with the leadership of the couples.
This was dreamed of by the Kazakh people, many diasporas, and today on the eve of the 25th anniversary we are celebrating the day of unity.
I want to tell all students and teachers that you will develop further.
the Director General of the newly elected akiu secretariat at a briefing with journalists said that Kazakhstan is "the main performer in the root of the development of food security and poverty among the countries of the organization of Islamic cooperation for the implementation of flexible policies."
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the prosecutor's office has an important task to ensure the rights of citizens in all spheres of society and the state, especially in the framework of solving socially important issues for the population.
The forum will summarize the results of the three-year thematic plan of research work to support the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy for 2013-2015.
for this, an annual internship with pay was introduced.
on the issue of oil production - the Minister of Energy and Kazneftegaz ": you must ensure an increase in oil production from 74 million to 75 million tons.
At the end of the event, the Deputy Chairman of Kazkosmos, the Chairman of the Aku Reception Commission noted that the Moldabek mirbek should effectively use it for commercial purposes, having received the ownership and risks of the kgs "uk" ak "kazeosat-2 satellite.
The Forum involves the wide use of world best practices in the field of energy and sustainable development, stimulating scientific and technological achievements in the development of clean energy sources.
The Chairman thanked some members of the Public Council for their active work in reviewing the regulations of the Ministry and preparing the budget.
Within the framework of the project, it is planned to introduce a mentoring institute in order to develop the skills of successful running of startup projects of participants and achieve a stable stage of development at downtime.
Together with the Turkish president, we published a special appeal calling on the Islamic world for unity.
Photo from the site alumnirudn.ru
the site is characterized by a clear structure of menu sections, a good information addition and the relevance of the specified information.
Therefore, we support the initiative of the deputies to hold early elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats of all levels, which increases the capabilities of political parties, "the appeal says.
The Ambassador thanked him for taking the time and organizing the interview and invited him the following year.
The home program was developed as part of the implementation of anti-crisis measures aimed at developing housing construction and ensuring increased accessibility of housing to the general population, with the bank interacting with equity holders and independent developers.
At the end of the meeting, Ayrullaev presented the guests with a memorial book about the main city of the country.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev called on the regions to unite in cooperation, thus providing each other with the necessary food. president nursultan nazarbayev urged the regions to unite in co-operation and provide each other with all necessary products .
The potential for the development of bilateral relations in the field of defense is enormous.
we raised a fund to start this work.
The participants of the photo contest got acquainted with the national policy of Kazakhstan to improve energy efficiency, develop alternative energy sources and provide all modern energy sources.
e.sydykov headed one of the largest universities in Kazakhstan - named after l.gumilev. ye . sydykov heads one of the largest universities of kazakhstan .
I think that the turnout for the elections will be very high, "said A. Markova.
Kazakhstan is constantly working to create an open and diversified economy.
a cycling team has been created in the region, a team form design has been developed, "the akim of the region said.
The national bank is developing strategic proposals for investing pension assets.
During the talks, the heads of state will discuss the main aspects of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
the Paralympic game will be held two weeks after the Olympic Games at the same sports grounds, "said E. Kanagatov.
In May last year, an agreement was signed on free trade between the EAEU countries and the socialist republic of Vietnam.	the document is intended to promote the development and strengthening of trade relations between the countries of the eeu and vietnam .	0,86
In total, these enterprises employ more than 20,000 thousand workers.	these enterprises employ about 20 thousand workers .	0,86
general similarity between Kazakhs and Finns.	actually , i want to note that the finns and the kazakhs have much in common .	0,86
the vast majority of parents say that school uniforms give students an aesthetic impulse, order.	the pupils , who wear uniforms , believe that it does not restrict their individuality ,  ye.sagadiyev said .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave B.Saparbayev a number of specific instructions regarding employment, improving the well-being of the population of the region, and also noted the need for qualitative implementation of all the goals and tasks related to the socio-economic development of the region.
in his report a.musins noted the significance of this event in the history of Kazakh-Moroccan relations and Kazakhstan's interest in further development of cooperation.
the Minister of Defence of RK Imangali Tasmagambetov, the member of the State Council - the Minister of Defence of the People's Republic of China colonel general a tub vantsyuan, the chairman of the state committee of the Republic of China for defense major general Marat Kenzhisariyev, the Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation general Sergei Shoygu, the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Tajikistan lieutenant general sheral mirzo, the First Deputy Minister of Defence - the chief of the General Staff of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Uzbekistan lieutenant general Shavkat Normatov.
The report of the President of Kazakhstan is not just a plan to overcome the economic situation, it is an important document of global and regional scale.
To ensure qualification in the selection of specialists from the new year, an individual approach to quality has been introduced.
The parties stressed the prospects of transport and logistics cooperation, taking into account mutual interest in the further transit of goods from Asia to Lithuania through Kazakhstan to the Scandinavian countries and northern Europe and vice versa.
As a result of the actions of kaznex invest JSC and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a certificate with a transit code was quickly achieved and the first delivery to Afghanistan was carried out.
The level of health care is growing annually: maternal mortality has decreased 3.7 times, infant mortality - 1.5 times.
2 out of 4 projects will be implemented in the Turkmen region, 1 in the Semipalatinsk and 1 more in the Auez regions.
According to the head of the region, in order to support medium and small businesses, the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, together with the regional chamber of entrepreneurs, will create a mini-financial organization LLP "Center for Servicing Entrepreneurs."
the mission consists of all representatives of the CIS.
The Kazakh delegation also visited the Chinese State Academy of Judges, where the President of the Supreme Court expressed interest in establishing ties between the educational centers of the judiciary of the two countries.
instrumental music is quite complex for many viewers; vocal music is very close to people, "said an outstanding pianist who has the talent of honey on his fingers.
I see that there were many voters in the elections.
1152.7 thousand are employed in the region, of which 514.1 thousand are self-employed (212.9 thousand are women).
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that at present special attention should be paid to establishing competent work with the public.
we have realized their centuries-old fantasies of a free and independent homeland.
The prize was awarded to us for a series of works on the topic "Implementation in the production of developments in the field of gold and lead metallurgy, which increased the status of Kazakhstan on the world technology market and made a significant contribution to the innovative development of the country." swamp.
But from August this year, a meat processing workshop, sausage and canned food production will begin to work in the region.
in short, space technology is an opportunity to prevent natural disasters, strengthen the country's defense and security.
the same monument was built in Uralsk. "
Member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Secretary of the Political Affairs Committee Pavel Shevchenko took part in the meeting.
The first five-year plan allowed us to get good experience, and we clearly understand the situation in sectors of the economy, regions and markets.
We hope that in the near future we will become members of the investment committee, "said Issekeshev.
therefore, the business support program "Business Roadmap 2020" should be part of the investment programs of macro-regions.
The national bank plans to take a number of measures within the framework of the successful implementation of a political monetary loan, including improving transparency of activities and monetary policy. as part of the successful implementation of the monetary policy , the national bank plans to implement a number of measures , aimed at the increase of the transparency of the operations and monetary policy .
all this suggests the similarity of our views and positions, "said N. Nazarbayev.
There, he presented the report "International Exhibition Expo 2017: Opportunities for Cooperation," informed the participants about the potential of Kazakh tourism, and also announced steps to support and develop the country's tourism infrastructure from the state.
Holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital will give us a good opportunity to actively develop new energy based on "green technologies."
"- said in the decree of the President of Kazakhstan.
parliamentary elections are now very necessary. at the moment , the parliamentary elections are very necessary .
in particular, before approval by the interested body, the development bodies post projects on the public discussion portal.
Also, the "capital" should become the core of the financial infrastructure of Kazakhstan, the largest business hub in the entire Central Asian region.
How much was the budget allocated on this order?
Doctor of Law, the general method of development of society of the republic suggests that Kazakhstan is in the right direction.
Kazakhstan is on the way to the full realization of the democratic system.
Currently, the level of our cooperation has a high potential.
therefore, in this regard, it is very important for people to know the language.
The initiative of early elections to the Majilis meets the interests of all citizens of Kazakhstan.
According to experts, the geographical location and production facilities of Kazakhstan will allow the new aviation and technical center not only to realize opportunities in the interests of the country's armed forces, but also to reach the regional level.
these are bills "on state support for industrial innovation," "On the economy," "On energy efficiency and energy conservation."
The former President of Afghanistan noted that the President of Kazakhstan assisted Afghanistan in ensuring peace and stability.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan expressed gratitude for the participation of the Chairman in the CEC as an international observer in the recent elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
the second proposal is to divide into two specialized groups on operational issues and to consider the possibility of a joint working group, in connection with which their working groups will be created - the first, on labor legislation, the second, on energy, ecology and the oil and gas sector.
I am sure that next year we will adequately hold an exhibition in front of the whole world, "the head of state summed up.
he also gave a number of specific assignments.
emulsion bitumen is economical from the point of view of technological composition and has high safety during operations.
By 2021, oil production in the country will reach 92 million tons per year, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
Given the difficulty of serving in special forces units, the State will continue to support this category of military personnel.
In accordance with the agreement reached during the visit of President of Uzbekistan I. Karimov to our country, I plan to visit Tashkent in June and take part in the next meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, which will be held there, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the total cost of the project is 52.1 billion tenge.
the kha deputy working group is a unique model of inter-party dialogue, which has no analogues in the practice of world parliamentarism. the work of the parliamentary group of the apk is an example of building of the unique inter-party dialogue , which has no analogues in the world practice of parliamentarism .
good wishes on the occasion of Independence Day came from Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain, Emperor of Japan akihito, King of Saudi Arabia Salman and Abdulaziz al-Saud, King of the Netherlands Willem Alexander, King of Sweden Charles XVI gustav and King of Belgium Philip.
and they make a significant contribution to global security.
I came to the polls not only as an observer, but also to gain experience from you. i am going to observe the elections , to gain experience and to learn .
in this region, the group of companies of the fund implements two identical projects included in the program of forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan also produces environmentally friendly agricultural products on the Spanish market.
at the end, the head of the Central Election Commission wished the experts of the ecu/diakb mission success in monitoring the elections.
In connection with the end of the congress, a "charity caravan" dedicated to the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan officially started.
Thank you day is a great idea. the gratitude day is a very good idea .
Provide free vocational education responsible for all these matters.
experts of the Council of Europe Committee on the Development of Financial Measures against Money Laundering, Evaluation of Money Laundering, etc.
On 1 September 2014, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amnesty of Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Persons with a Residence Permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Oralmans Associated with their Legalization of Property" was signed, and also announced the start of the procedure for legalization of property not in economic circulation.
This year, the summit was held under the heading "for unity and solidarity, for justice and peace."
I want to note that we have the price and preliminary result of this mission. i would like to note that the estimates and the preliminary results of the mission are ready .
but this is not only the Kazakhstan crisis, it concerns all countries of the oil economy.
secondly, the creation of an agro-industrial complex for the production of milk.
The main activities of the Dutch expert are based on such areas as consulting services on human and financial capital, training in analytical and information work, project management, development and management decisions.	the key activities are based on the provision of advisory services in the human and financial capital , skills training and information analytical work , project management , development and management decisions .	0,86
along with the traditional form of mutual support, a new form of volunteer activity will be created that will contribute to the socio-economic and cultural development of the state.	so , in addition to traditional forms of mutual support the community creates new forms of voluntary activities in oredr to contribute to the socio-economic and cultural development of the state .	0,86
According to him, kaznex invest is ready to assist investors in the search for production space in all territories of Kazakhstan.	according to him , kaznex invest is ready to assist the investors in finding the production sites throughout the territory of kazakhstan .	0,86
mun dir rusy ".
the creation of a bank of low enriched uranium in Kazakhstan is an urgent and very interesting initiative. the initiative of kazakhstan to establish a bank of low-enriched uranium is extremely interesting .
At the plenary session on the theme "Strengthening economic cooperation in the Eurasian space" R. Vasilenko made a presentation and introduced the conference participants to the main priorities of his policy aimed at maximizing the full and effective use of the country's geographical location in the Eurasian center.
This year, 1.8 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the ZhKZ-2020 program, of which 719.4 million tenge will be allocated for the overhaul of 14 educational facilities and 3 healthcare facilities.
we are facing a new global reality with different opportunities and risks.
the age of participants is different - from 23 to 52 years.
We are pleased to welcome the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Kazakhstan. during our meeting we mainly discussed the issues of economic cooperation .
According to him, all the work done helped attract 20.3 billion tenge of private investment.
various innovation projects will also be identified.
The participation of the representatives of Afghanistan in the meeting allowed for a wider review of the situation in the region, as well as a discussion of joint steps to create conditions for the further sustainable development of this state to the countries of Central Asia, the EU and Afghanistan.
Currently, joint projects in the field of transport are being implemented.
The Venice Commission has repeatedly analyzed very important documents for Kazakhstan. the venice commission has repeatedly conducted the expert analysis of the most popular issues in kazakhstan .
According to him, as of January 1, 2016, the number of voters amounted to 475509 people, work continues on updating the voter list.
at the central level, we have created a government council to attract investment, which will track the work of strategic investors and transnational companies in regional regions, "he said.
Any disclosure of information related to disclosure is criminalized by law.
According to him, the geopolitical location of the Eurasian continent will provide a gate between east and west.
According to 2015 statistics, the decline in investment in the mining industry amounted to 60%.
the meeting also discussed Senate events scheduled for April.
in the amount of 14.4 billion tenge.
The manufacturing industry produced products worth 373.2 billion tenge, the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 353.7 billion tenge.
annual guaranteed, limited transfer from the national fund to the republican budget should be the only mechanism.
The Chairman of the Baku Parliament noted the special need for a conference of "religion against terrorism," since it is necessary to jointly confront the ideology of extremism, which considers religion, and explain the peaceful foundations of Islam.
Strengthening the State's interaction with States in the implementation of the Plan of Independent Action.
atameken marble cocktail (Krikbaeva) is engaged in the production of slab stones, stairs, natural stones for bricks.
it is important to combine the efforts of deputies, politicians, expert communities, a tank in the information space to counter extremist ideology.
at first glance, it looks very modest - growth, reforms, development - this is a warning of the impact of the economic crisis not only on Kazakhstan, but also on the economy of the whole world.
firstly, this is due to the crisis throughout the world and is aimed at maintaining a stable financial and economic situation at home.
The purpose of the training seminar is to teach comprehensive approaches to the application of gender aspects in improving social policy and the work of local governments.
To date, Kazakhstan has 48 licenses in 12 sports for the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. as of today , kazakhstan got 48 licenses for the summer olympics in rio de janeiro .
the ministry has developed a two-level approach to changing the concept of the antimonopoly service and bringing it into line with OECD standards, the report said.
In order to effectively protect the legal interests and rights of entrepreneurs in Astana, as well as at the city chamber of entrepreneurs covering problematic issues of business development, the Council for the Protection of Entrepreneurs' Rights has been operating since 2014.
at the same time, branches and representative offices operate in all areas.
it offers great opportunities for development and helps to find out what situations are happening in the world.
a number of books by Nursultan Nazarbayev have been translated into Hungarian.
By the way, the development of volleyball pays great attention to the East Kazakhstan Governor's Office, "said the coach of the women's team of the Altai volleyball club zhanbolat burkhan.
The international community has a high interest in the exhibition. today , the world community is interested in the exhibition .
An important one will be to ensure the functioning of the arbitration chamber in the country, "he said. baymoldin.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that each enterprise should have a "reserve of tolerance."
In addition, to attract foreign specialists, citizens of Europe, Europe, Malaysia, Singapore and Monaco are granted the right to stay in Kazakhstan for 30 days, "he said.
In 2015, according to the comprehensive plan, it is planned to employ 16,151 people, but the plan was completed by 129.6%. according to the comprehensive plan , it was planned to employ 16,151 people in 2015 , but in fact the plan was fulfilled by 129.6 % .
Today we expect equipment from Russia, in the summer we supply useful products to store shelves, "said the akim of the Kobdinsky district.
In this regard, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan instructed the akimats of the regions, together with the central state bodies, to monitor and monitor the flood situation daily, concentration of special and engineering equipment in flood hazardous areas, preparation of bridges, arched channel systems, river channels, hydraulic structures and protective dams for the implementation of ultra-small volumes of snow water and floods, Organize awareness-raising work on the rules of public safety in the event of a threat of flooding of settlements.
most of them are nurses - more than 30 are real specialists, "said the head of the train headquarters, Amirzhan Alpeis.
I. As noted by Libinja Jägner, ratification took place in the first reading of the Latvian parliament.
There is no doubt that future generations of Kazakhstanis will appreciate and be proud of our achievements.
In addition, he noted that per capita financing should be introduced only in large cities, and this idea was not implemented in rural areas.
independence - the value of an eternal country, eternal statehood and the independence of happy youth.
Mr. Sall thanked for the invitation to visit Kazakhstan and expressed hope that this visit will allow establishing contacts between the two countries.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed regret over the incident and expressed concern about the deterioration of Russian-Turkish relations.
The senator stressed that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the participation of international observers in the upcoming elections.
through one window, the company received a land plot for the implementation of a priority investment project in the field of petrochemical and chemical transport.
we reduced the management staff from 16 to nine people.
unemployment is on the rise.
force creates force against.
this is correct, and the reason is that you need to retire to age, you need lawyers who know the law and can do it, you need economists who can understand the economic problems in Kazakhstan, you need representatives of the social network, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to the hydrometeorological monitoring center, despite the decrease in the air pollution index from 10 to 7 indicators of isa5 in 2015 year 2014 10 to 7 in 9 year, this indicator indicates pollution of the air basin of Almaty.
The Governor of the region also met with women public figures, athletes and representatives of other professions who took an active part in the development of the Island Sea region.
During the meeting, the leaders reported on the results of the work done during the Unit-2016 border operation aimed at preventing and suppressing illegal actions.
a memorandum of understanding was also signed with the first clients to develop the practical activities of the center.
That is, the state is obliged to help every young person get the first specialty.
During the event, the issues of expanding gender and family-demographic policy in Kazakhstan, as well as economic opportunities and protecting the health of women in rural regions were discussed in detail.
According to B. Sagintayev, the emergence of new terrorist threats makes us look for mechanisms of interaction and new effective ways.
You all know Nurtai Abikayula well. we know n. abykayev very well .
we have the main production, consisting of several parts: before the dismantling, washing and repair of incoming equipment, painting and assembly of tanks and armored materials. the main production is composed of several sections for disassembly , cleaning equipment , painting and assembly of tanks and armored personnel carriers .
According to him, this is the first resolution adopted on this important issue at the initiative of Kazakhstan.
10.5 thousand roads were reconstructed and built.
ya. keinhorst believes that Kazakhstan needs to reduce its dependence on natural resources.
the adoption of new legislation reveals a number of shortcomings and gaps. as new legislation was adopted , some shortcomings and omissions were revealed .
this potential threat should be understood as an axiom by current national leaders and politicians and all representatives of their next generation.
During the conference, a documentary film about the Alash movement was shown, a book exhibition was held about the life and work of the Alikhan Bokeikhanov, a new issue of the Muhammadzhan Seralin was presented - a continuation.
According to the forecast, in 2017 compared to 2015, the growth of poultry and pork meat in the union will be 14 and 9%.
we can now inform you of the interim results of the work. now we have to inform you on the outcome for today .
At a high level, it was noted that Kazakhstan can show its openness in the world community.
today, entire industries live at the expense of the state.
In addition, on the basis of the Kyzylorda College of Humanities named after M. Mametova, a memorandum was signed with the Katev International Foundation with the aim of teaching English to teachers of disciplines and elementary classes and teachers of preschool institutions.
Of these 19 international instruments, Kazakhstan has ratified 15 to date, the remaining 4 are already working on conventions.
Chakrabarti noted that the EBRD considers the Council of Foreign Investors as an effective mechanism for attracting new foreign investors and promoting reforms in our country.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country needs to be conveyed to young people and adolescents through the entire education system, "said the academician.
- Who, as a citizen of Kazakhstan, you think, should come to the composition of the updated meeting?
130 appeals are considered by members of the commission.
it will replace many ministries. it will replace a large number of the ministries .
our youngest athletes exchange experience, take part in winter seasons of 2015-2016. our most young athletes are trying to gain experience by participating in the winter season 2015 / 2016 .
negotiations on trade and economic cooperation with China will begin in the near future.
According to him, the management on harmonization of Kazakhstan standards and international standards crirsco prepared the procedure for involving independent experts and expert groups and conducted independent experiments with underground wealth and paid for these services.
The investor's goal is to conduct a competition, create facilities, provide high-quality maintenance, "he added.
maintaining inter-ethnic tolerance and social harmony is one of the main achievements of Kazakhstan's independence, "the akim said.
9 Department staff conduct lectures at the Regional Public Service Training Centre.
The main purpose of the law is to form and strengthen long-term cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the private sector by combining funds to increase the level of accessibility and quality of public goods and services.
First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov.
The meeting participants considered the results of the rating "business climate."
Saudi Arabia and Kazakhstan know each other well.
Note that loans are provided in tenge with the consent of the national bank and the issue of bonds.
How many buildings and structures are built in the capital.
we need to update.
we need to update.
According to the commissioner, the British pavilion will be especially defined.
mission headquarters prepared a number of materials for short-term observers.
moreover, advances in space activities and all infrastructure should work to develop and strengthen the State.
she deserves his advocacy and care.
romat iso 9001-2001 is one of the first enterprises to implement international quality and management standards.
According to Turkish investors, more than 100 jobs have been created in connection with the construction of the enterprise.
From 70 to 100 children annually enter the republican schools of the "young ulan" from all over the country.
During the conversation, the parties discussed the prospects for expanding and deepening trade and economic ties, increasing the volume of mutual trade, and intensifying relations between the business circles of the two countries.
Italian entrepreneurs are interested in creating joint ventures in Kazakhstan to grow and process vegetables and fruits, produce dairy products, and organic fertilizers.
As part of the program, it is proposed to expand the work on the relocation of citizens to a labor-intensive zone.
But, unlike many export countries, Kazakhstan has developed a clear strategy for a timely reduction in oil prices, "the expert said.
Issues of trade and economic relations were discussed at today's meeting. we can deliver a large number of our products to uzbekistan .
In addition, as part of the Employment Roadmap program, employers have shown their best.
the systemic step of regulating foreign agricultural equipment in the eeo market is reflected in the roadmap, the report said.
the plan focuses on the historical and local history, tourism development of the younger generation, as well as the development among mentors of interest in the history of the Fatherland, local history, culture, the formation of basic skills in research activities, and the promotion of children's and youth self-development.
basically, complete disarmament of nuclear weapons destroying all humanity and the eternal closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
to receive packages, the client dials the track number and the mobile phone number on the screen of a special terminal located in the supermarket.
Currently, the project "uplift" is being implemented as part of the modernization of the social assistance system, which provides for measures to modernize targeted social assistance by concluding a social contract, which is conditional on the mandatory participation of low-income, able-bodied citizens in active measures.
we did it no matter what.
A number of valuable proposals and opinions were voiced at the meeting.
Starting next January, a project will be launched in the capital aimed at organizing professional training for high school students.
On the issue, which became the main topic of the meeting, he praised the first results of the work of the unified transport and logistics company (BCL) between the railway administrations of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus in November 2014 and expressed interest in deepening it, "the KTZ press service said.
in the mining industry, we are moving to the method according to the Western Australian model, where the principle of "first bride-first" is respected, "said B. Sagintayev.
following the meeting, R. Zhoshybayev and R. Yankauskas signed an agreement on the participation of the Lithuanian side in Expo-2017.
however, according to him, the Kazakh model is based on the deep interconnection of cultures.
To date, 421 of 535 flooded houses have been pumped out, 969 people have been evacuated from emergency situations in a timely manner, 17 people have been rescued.
we equaled Latvia, Estonia and countries such as Singapore, "the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan explained.
we are working on the implementation of the order of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev. we are working to implement the order of the president on implementation of energy efficiency .
The Kazakh diplomat noted the favorable investment climate in Kazakhstan, and also spoke about the state of doing business within the state in order to support domestic producers of programs and prospects.
The Turkish company ant group is known in the world and specializes in the supply of equipment.
the requirement to use liquefied hydrocarbon gas as fuel. "
because each social payment is an additional weight of each working Kazakhstani, and not just a budget.
therefore, we are working to ensure that there is ethnic diversity in the state apparatus.
at the same time, he noted that thanks to the positive initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan throughout the world, Kazakhstan is evaluated as an active organizer of interreligious dialogue.
According to him, this is the decision of the deputies, the time of which is organized.
Within the framework of the event, competitions will be held in futsal, volleyball, athletics, table tennis, armresling, as well as in cable racing, asyka, wrestling in the Kazakh language, girlhood, kokpara, togyzkumalaku.
Today, the ministry has clear approaches to priority areas of development and support measures.
including complexes on the feet and in coconut areas, a poultry farm in the Urdzhar region.
we systematized this work, together with other state bodies submitted proposals to parliament, simplified the activities of control and regulation, "he said.
In general, the scheme developed by Kazagro is based on the following approaches: firstly, associations are organized on the principles of cooperation and solidarity, the participants of which at the initial stage are grain producers.
The value of the indicator in 2015 amounted to 137 points, "explained Z. Shaukenov.
in addition to hotels and catering facilities, enterprises such as beauty salons, spa centers, dry cleaning, laundry also expressed a desire to participate in the program.
Representatives of the public drew attention to the fact that the new facilities opened as part of the festive events raise the spirit of the country and renew the historical consciousness of young people.
Our leader noted not only the achievements achieved since independence, but also today's difficulties. our elbasy spoke about progress over the years of independence , and the main issues for today 's economic situation .
The head of the region also noted that in 2015 Kazakhstan amended the law on the basics of attracting investment.
envelopes were pasted, mixed and pasted on a table located at a distance that all participants could see.
we recall the previous summit, when there were much fewer people.
According to forecasts, it will be 650-700 tenge per square meter, "the report said.
if the study is shown, it will be safe, the next stage will be a clinical study, "said S. Askarova.
In a message to the people this year, President Nazarbayev noted that today's global crisis has a high profile in all aspects. in the current address to the people of kazakhstan president nursultan nazarbayev noted that today 's global crisis by all indications is comprehensive .
Following the forum, agreements were signed between the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan and the Chamber of Commerce and Production of Afghanistan on the creation of a business council, strengthening cooperation between entrepreneurs of the two countries.
contemporary art in Kazakhstan is at a very high level, this is evidenced by the exhibitions we hold abroad. the contemporary art has a high level in kazakhstan , and those exhibitions , that are held in our country , those collections , that our craftsmen exhibit abroad , are evidence to this .
If you look at history, then truth, work, spiritual values ​ ​ are a property embedded in the blood of our people. from time immemorial , such feelings as respect for the values , work , traditions , knowledge , honesty and integrity were in the blood of our people .
In 2015, 4083 residents were sent to the green belt to further increase them.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the creation of the center is carried out within the framework of structural reforms aimed at diversifying the country's economy and ensuring its stability in modern conditions.
The recognized results of scientific, technical, technological and innovative activities to create new products and technologies in various sectors of the economy are presented for the state prize.	kazakhstan scientists accept the evaluation with enthusiasm and believe that the head of state pays great attention to science , research and implementation of the results in science to develop the industrial and innovative economy .	0,86
geopolitical contradictions between the leading powers, a decrease in the level of economic growth in many states, the active emergence of terrorist acts in the post-Soviet region - all this creates new risks and requires timely and correct measures.	the aggravation of geopolitical conflicts between the main powers , the unfavorable situation on the world energy markets , the decline in the economic growth in most countries , the emergence of new hotbeds of instability , terrorist activity near the post-soviet region - all these factors form a new large-scale complex threats and challenges which require adequate and timely answers .	0,86
Preparation for the exhibition takes place at its own level, and this is very pleasing for all participants, "said Sh. singh.
As the head of state noted, the Islamic world should not remain overboard, since the issue concerns the development of agricultural issues and food security.
in particular, it is necessary to determine the final composition of the exhibition participants, to meaningfully replenish the pavilion of Kazakhstan and objects of other countries.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that about 1000 observers and about 150 representatives of the media from 51 countries of the world watched the election.
In 6 districts, land tax payments have been increased, which will increase the rational need for land use, "said N. Abdibekov.
Today, the Kazakh-Turkish Lyceum gives students a high-quality education and opens up all its opportunities. nowadays the kazakh-turkish lyceums give the pupils high-quality knowledge , revealing their full potential .
The purpose of the memorandum is to develop international cooperation in the field of education, including the development of activities between the president of hbo ak and mountains.
As the Vice Minister explained, the labeling of products for tones was considered at inflated prices.
whoever can use it will win, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
military ranks of the major general: alchekens lutu sapuovich, dilmans darkhan aikaliula, kashagans nurlan musakanovich, nurakhmetov sagatbek tuleubayula, omarkuls gendos castelbekula, sats mukhomethkali kusain;
First of all, this is a large-scale explanatory work among the population on behalf of the head of state and the mobilization of all citizens to implement all the tasks set.
a complex geoeconomic and geopolitical event in the world is accompanied by an increase in international pressure and the threat of terrorism.
Kazakhstanis unanimously agree on the timeliness and relevance of reforms.
the presence of international observers increases the authority of electoral processes and is in many ways a guarantee of their transparency and transparency, "said member of the CEC of Kazakhstan M. Sarsembayev during the briefing.
To this end, as of February 1, the federation trained 21,163 heads of primary trade union organizations.	for this purpose about 100 billion tenge will be allocated ,  a. kussainov has said .
According to the election results, the Nұr Otan party won 82.2% of the vote and took 84th place at the meeting.
Chairman of the Committee on the Development of Languages ​ ​ and Socio-Political Work of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan in his speech noted the legislative aspect of the development of inter-ethnic relations of Kazakhstanis, strengthening the unity and harmony of the Kazakh people.
next year is the 25th anniversary of our independence.	at the same time , the activity of deputies is increasing from year to year .	0,87
N.Nazarbayev also noted the importance of expanding cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of health care and drew attention to successful cooperation in this area.	n. nazarbayev also drew attention to the successful cooperation in the field of health care company with kazakhstan , noting the importance of expansion of cooperation in this sphere .	0,87
production plan.	kazmunaigas avoided losses .	0,87
During the visit, meetings were held with representatives of the Thai business community, the Minister of Tourism and Sports K. Wattanavrangkul, the Governor of Bangkok Paribatra, the Executive Director of Escap Sh.haht.	in addition mr. baibek participated in a session of the asia-pacific forum on sustainable development themed  ensure openness , security , viability and environmental sustainability of cities , regional priorities and opportunities . "
The language training project, implemented as part of the Department of Education, Departments of Turkology of the University of Frankfurt, Berlin Free University, has been operating for three years. the project for the study of languages by the faculty of the department of enu , turkological departments of the university of frankfurt , berlin free university is realized within three years .
As deputy chairmen of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I propose the candidacies of Vladimir Bozhko and the Gulmira Isimbaeva, "he said.
Today, the fifteenth session of the Joint Intergovernmental Council on bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Uzbekistan was held.
In the second direction (creation of jobs through the development of entrepreneurship and the development of support villages), 5.7 thousand people were trained in the basics of entrepreneurship and received microcredit, of which 3.9 thousand people first opened their business and became entrepreneurs.
I instructed the leadership of these industries, that is, the road police were fined, and the Department of Justice is collecting.
the achievement of independence was not written on everyone's forehead, along the way you need not to spare your strength.
The head of the city visited an enterprise for the production of heating radiators.
The club works together with a branch of the nur otan party in the Karaganda region.
Nevertheless, we have ensured positive dynamics, preventing a recession, and I hope that we will maintain it this year.
If world oil prices will cost $30 per barrel, then by the end of this year we plan to produce 74 million tons of oil, which will be $30 per barrel, "said Bozumbayev.
Kazakhstan is diversified and produces many industries, which in Soviet times were effective and remained in good condition. kazakhstan produces the diversification of production and many productions , profitable in the soviet era , are conserved , but are in the excellent condition .
the employer must submit an application with information about the foreign employee in order to obtain permission to attract foreign labor. to obtain permission for foreign manpower , the employer must submit an application with full information about the workers .
According to the head of agriculture, today the state is supporting agricultural producers.
firstly, ensuring the effective functioning of the financial sector in conditions of free exchange rate of tenge.
we want to hold our own national championship, because participation in the international championship is very expensive.
it is expected that this Kazakh-Iranian project will be a continuation of the project for the construction of a glass factory in the Kyzylorda city.
According to him, the entrepreneurs of the region first freaked out, and then by the end of 2015 they found a new path of development.
Today, in Kokshetau, Stepnogorsk and nearby settlements of the capital, the construction of kindergartens is provided as part of the use of the service mechanism.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to dynamic changes in global development.
In these conditions, the further implementation of the provisions of the Astana declaration is very important, "the report said.
In the field of nuclear disarmament, Kazakhstan can serve as a special example.
there the soldiers worked out tasks for the inspection of transport and people, ground and air patrols of the settlement, the protection of the base, the stopping of crowds, the provision of medical assistance and the evacuation of the wounded, as well as the removal and purification of water, the escort of humanitarian cargo over long distances and the identification of improvised explosive devices.
this is the task of the state and the opportunity in the future to conduct individual financing to improve the quality of medical services, "he said.
I am sure that our athletes will show excellent performance at the national championship, "said the director of the ferration branch, Ruslan Dukembayev.
we are their successors, heirs of the "great steppe," this is our fate, this is our choice, the head of state emphasized.
the capital has a low level of kindergarten. the enormous number of houses was built .
we met with the chairman of the CEC, who briefly explained the holding of elections and preparations. we met with the head of the cec kuandyk turgankulov , we were briefed on the preparations and the election procedure .
this is a preparatory visit in October before coming here.
actively participate in the new privatization program, legalize funds and work openly.
At the end of the year, the North Kazakhstan region took 1st place among the republican regions in terms of investment growth. as a result , north kazakhstan region takes the 1st place in the republic in terms of growth of investment .
I. Aronova noted that "today we are considering the issue of financing laboratories and pay attention to the fact that they receive time.
According to the Director General of the TsON, every year the number of car lovers who received a driver's license in a specialized TsON is growing.
I think that inviting all the countries of the country and holding expo-2017 is a very reasonable step of the President of Kazakhstan. i think that the expo-2017 in astana - is a very prudent step of the president .
Representatives of the best labor collectives of the country and regions gathered here today. we have gathered together here , the best representatives of labour collectives from all around the country .
current metal prices, according to the speaker, stimulate the Kazakh authorities to find a new market.
I also call on Congress to ensure stable and urgent funding for magic and to approve the candidacy of Laura Holgate as the country's ambassador to the steam department in Vienna, located in the magate.
The main task of the military supervisor in the UN mission is to monitor the implementation of mandates and paired requirements, agreements concluded between the government and the couple. the main task of the military observer - is to monitor the implementation of the mandate of the united nations and the requirements of agreements concluded between the government and the un .
During the meeting, the parties discussed the depth of further trade, economic, scientific and technical cooperation on the basis of traditional political interaction at the highest level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Creative personnel nominated for the elections can solve many problems that occur in the legislative sphere, "he said.
Today, the Zenit plant produces modern ships and boats, actively participates in the industrial and innovative program of the republic.
In addition, according to the deputy, the nomenclature of export products increased from 1815 positions to 2534.
transfer of state functions to competitive environment and local self-government
In addition, according to the author, the combined elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels will save 4.8 billion rubles from the budget.
According to S. rakhymbekova, before the competition, it was proved, "how many materials should be submitted to the competition commission, their signs, the quality of the plot, the requirements for the topics are determined."
it operates under the auspices of an international civil aviation organization.
The President of Romania stressed that the activities of the organization will become the main tool for the development of business cooperation in the field of entrepreneurship of the two countries.
With regard to current challenges, we need to restore the rate of economic growth, which ensures Kazakhstan's entry into the thirty most developed countries of the world.
The Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General of Iran highly appreciated the role of the Kazakh prosecutor's office in the implementation of the country's international legal policy and confirmed their intentions to deepen bilateral cooperation.
Much work has been done during this period.
It was attended by representatives of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the leadership of other ministries and departments of the country, employees of the central committee of the Communist Party, heads of diplomatic missions, public figures, scientists and correspondents.
The early elections of Kazakhstan in the primaries demonstrate the prevention of a systemic crisis among the authorities of the republic. the initiative of snap elections in the majilis of the parliament of kazakhstan demonstrates that republic 's authorities are ready to force the issue in order to avoid the possible systemic crisis .
interethnic tolerance and social harmony are successfully implemented in the country, "he said.
he said that an agreement was reached with the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on the organization of this investment dialogue 3-4 times a year.
In accordance with the said resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 155 observers of one election observation mission, one international organization and one foreign state on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the draft resolution of the central election commission on accreditation of observers from the international organizations and foreign states for the snap elections of deputies of the majilis of the parliament and regular elections of deputies of the maslikhats of kazakhstan , scheduled for march 20 , 2016 , is considered .
The President of Kazakhstan recalled the additional measures announced at the enlarged government meeting to support the economy, aimed at improving the effectiveness of monetary policy and maintaining financial stability in the country.
They also discussed the formation and implementation of the Vienna University of Economics and Business together with the Eurasian Fiscal Academy world educational program.
New people's representatives elected to parliament can take operational measures for the development of Kazakhstan, "said B. Vinant.
everything must be automated.
The President of Kazakhstan also expressed interest in intensifying cooperation in a number of areas.
Domestic egg producers with the support of kaznex invest JSC this year opened the way to the market of a number of countries, such as Afghanistan, "says a representative of kaznex invest JSC.
It is worth noting that the effective fight against tuberculosis in Kazakhstan is of a national nature, and also remains one of the most important and priority areas of the state's social policy.
So, in 2015, more than 1,200 people were resettled from settlements with low economic potential.
Also, the post of press secretary was introduced to work with the garden in the regional courts, "said Bulat Kalyanbekov.
Vytautas is one of the most famous diplomats of the Republic of Lithuania.
At the end of 2015, the volume of trade with the Russian Federation amounted to 862.5 million dollars.
the secret Mansurov said earlier that in connection with the publication of a number of books about President Nazarbayev, high demands were presented to the authors of this work.
this is very important for the views of all unions.
issues of expanding and strengthening the legal framework, inter-agency cooperation and the exchange of operational information were also raised.
our large enterprises were forced to reduce production.
In addition, in the village of Sekisovka, the Aitay Mining and Processing LLP project is included in the "regional industrialization map," increasing ore production at the gold mining plant from 850 tons to 2000 tons per year.
Kazakhstan's share in Chinese imports is only 0.1%.
According to K. Zhakupov, within the framework of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017, at the initiative of Turkpa, it was proposed to hold a festival of Turkic culture.
I am sure that the composition of the new deputies will improve the pension legislation.
The Mayor of the city noted that Switzerland occupies a special place in the foreign trade cooperation of Kazakhstan and Almaty.
you know very well what is happening in the world.
there the agrarian credit corporation is also dealing with this issue.
The Singaporean side noted the need for cooperation in joint resolution of issues of international importance, issues of modernization of the activities of the ministries of foreign affairs of the two countries.
Recall that since 1992, the World Bank has invested 6.8 billion US dollars in Kazakhstan.
the remaining projects will be completed before the end of the year.
although they have their own characteristics, they are located in the same network of language and culture.
All information will be published on this portal, "the Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov told reporters today.
today, many countries are amending legislation to counter terrorist acts. currently , many countries amend the legislation in response to the terrorist acts .
As noted in the report, in a difficult period of the global economic crisis, the country needs such powerful political institutions as the Majilis of the parliament and maslikhats.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, it is necessary to develop interregional partnership. the president instructed to develop interregional cooperation .
I instruct the government to once again analyze cases of legalization and, if necessary, strengthen guarantees to its participants.
the past year has become fruitful in the field of legislation.
Work is also underway to manage street hazardous waste.
According to the chairman of the ethnocultural center, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is not just an institution, but a political organization representing candidates for legislative bodies of the country.
who sells, how many territories are sold, who makes a decision. members of the commission suggested not only selling land , but also leasing it to citizens of kazakhstan , " vice premier added .
In turn, the Cambaceres noted the positive experience of Kazakhstan in ensuring equal rights and opportunities for all ethnic groups.
Last year, the winners of the competition were pupils of the specialized lyceum "lion" in Almaty.
in particular, the implementation of the national plan and five institutional reforms should be ensured by law with the Government.
he noted that peasant farms use the opportunities of state and sectoral programs.
all regional friendship houses are in the competence of kha, "the head of state said.
in this regard, the supreme judicial council has been radically reformed, which will become an autonomous state institution with its own apparatus, expanded composition and powers.
a modern city needs an innovative economy.	a modern city needs an innovative economy .	0,87
- The main problem of Almaty residents is allergies.	- the big problem for the residents of almaty city is an allergy .	0,87
One step of the reform is to increase the number of court sessions with participants.	one of the reform steps was to enhance the work of the jury .	0,87
he also drew attention to the fact that, given the wealth of Kazakhstan in solid minerals, there are good opportunities for cooperation with the chemical cluster of Bavaria.	he also said that taking into account the wealth of kazakhstan 's subsoil solid minerals , there are good opportunities for cooperation with the chemical cluster in bavaria .	0,87
according to him, thanks to the signing of a license by leading companies and publishers of the country, today the state provides access to world information resources.	according to him , nowadays the state provides the access to the global information resources , resulting in the signing of the license of the country with the leading companies and publishers .	0,87
Also in the new Aray-2 microdistrict, the foundation of a 280-seat kindergarten was laid.
At this meeting, the parties discussed specific issues of cooperation in the field of security.
in improving the management system of state institutions, state symbols attach increased importance and are one of the elements of national consciousness, "said K. Aktaeva.
The optimization concept is being worked with contractors.
the team will include 10 Kazakhstanis and 6 Belgians.	sporting director of team jacques tunissen declared the beginning of a new season 2016 with the new baikonur team which consists of 10 kazakhstan and 6 belgian racers .	0,87
100 concrete steps "by the decree of the head of state adopted the concept of the development of physical culture and sports until 2025 and currently approved action plans.
According to the president of the public fund, new people, a new format and approach are needed in the practical implementation of this case.
All initiatives on this path belong to the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said the director of the national museum Darkhan Mynbai in a photo exhibition.
in the nomination "Best Collective Agreement," collective agreements provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan are considered, significantly improving and strengthening the labor and social rights of workers.
Further continuation of reforms aimed at improving the investment climate.
new educational programs are based on the program of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School.
The development of Asia in the last decade has shown the need for close ties within the Asian region, as well as the need for Asian cooperation with Europe and Kazakhstan.
as a platform for the joint work of Kazakhstan and foreign military producers, the exhibition will create additional conditions for the development of the domestic military-industrial complex.
Therefore, efforts were made to open new areas of cooperation uniting Kazakhstan and the European Union, "the head of the department said.
Ilyin is a champion of the Olympic Games. ilya ilyin is an olympic champion .
mastered the profession.
it is a technical spacecraft and a scientific spacecraft. these are technological and scientific space vehicles .
As a result, 19 roads of regional significance, 1 bridge were repaired, 8 roads and 1 bridge were commissioned.
the family lives in Uralsk.
tests and training courses were compiled by leading teachers of the country.
what are your creative plans?
Participants exchanged knowledge on the history and culture, traditions of our country.
b.kamaliyev noted that the volume of freight traffic between China and Europe increased from 117 to 170 million tons.
people must be no less than the price and quality of foreign products in order to get our products.	as she pointed out , we are joining the world trade organization , and  there are big risks for kazakhstan 's business , we need to be competitive . "
According to him, in this regard, of course, it is necessary to create some new means of communication between society and the state, some new feedback mechanisms.
we are waiting for promises, "he said.
this center will ensure mutually beneficial organization of business with the state within the framework of a public-private project.
Currently, many foreigners come to Kazakhstan, oalers also need to be served.
Akim recalled that in the message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan Astana, Almaty, Shymkent and the cities of Aktobe will become the first urban centers in the republic.
In addition, the region will continue to work on gasification of districts, attracting investments, developing industrial sites, building kindergartens on the basis of public-private partnership, repairing national and local roads and a number of other main areas.
The Council advises the Supreme Court on the development of Kazakh justice.
We expect that Kazakhstanis, as Astana residents, will take advantage of online sales and discounts on tickets, "A.Yesimov said.
environmentally friendly products are sent to Holland and Belgium.
It is also expected that on this day the deputies of the Majilis will accept the draft law "On the Fund for Compensation for Harm to Victims" with an accompanying document.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh diplomat presented the prospects of bilateral cooperation with the upcoming election campaign of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, social and economic policy.
In this regard, the head of state stressed that the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan should work in close cooperation with the akims.
"If we have a Muslim holiday, then everyone will celebrate March or March.
During the visits of heads of State and Government and other high-level delegations, an exchange of views was held on the implementation of the agreements reached.
we have achieved many results in this direction.
According to Bauyrzhan Smagulov, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Construction, Housing and Communal Services and Land Management of Kazakhstan, the total area of ​ ​ land allocated for agriculture is currently 100.8 million hectares, while only 1.3% of agricultural land (1.3 million hectares) is privately owned.
The head of state visited the medical chambers and got acquainted with the main areas of activity of the center.
the mutual interest of the parties included issues of sports management and management of sports facilities.
organization of campaign printed materials of pre-election campaigning of all candidates.
The silk road not only developed trade, but also allowed the exchange of experience, achievements and knowledge, contributed to the strengthening of a major dialogue between the world and Eurasia. the silk road developed the trade , also it stimulated the exchange of best practices , achievements , knowledge of that time , it contributed to the strengthening of peace and dialogue of large eurasia for centuries .
During the seminar, the issues of preparing the child for school, reaching retirement age, employment, obtaining services in the process of acquiring property were considered.
The Paralympic Committee is now actively working: recently they went to Japan, studying the country's Paralympic movement. paralympic committee is now actively working : recently they had a trip to japan , studied the experience of the paralympic movement .
In this regard, the head of state instructed to develop a set of interdepartmental measures to combat extremism and terrorism, "said K. Maxim.
After that, the akim of the region visited the regional center "Mother and Child."
Currently, the building in which the workshop is located has been installed, collateral documents and the charter of the cooperative for obtaining a loan are being developed, "said M. Saev.
Respondents also believe that the Government of Kazakhstan should adapt to attract investment in the country's economy.
Today, the world faces difficult problems that are very difficult for volatile countries.
Currently, the technical and economic stage of the project is being developed.
it is planned to be implemented in stages and dedicated to the 100th anniversary, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Timely and correct step of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.
The Minister also thanked Mikhail Pestovsky for his contribution to the hermitage days in the National Museum of Kazakhstan.
This is evidenced by the agreement on expanding cooperation and partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union, ratified in the Kazakh parliament in March this year.
In connection with its practical implementation, the country will reach a new level of development, "said the director of the institute.
the implementation of the plan will allow the implementation of the "four freedoms" principle - freedom of movement of goods, services, capital and labor.
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan and Japan are close allies for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, as well as the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
The Code of Ethics contains standards of conduct for public servants in unscheduled times, relations with colleagues, managers and subordinate employees, and no conflict of interest.	the code aims to strengthen the public confidence in the public authorities , form the strong culture of mutual relations in the civil service and prevent unethical behavior of civil servants ,  the message reads .
We do not hide that we intend to work in the field of entrepreneurship, especially with colleagues from Atyrau region, in order to establish business ties, "said Para Sahakyan.
secondly, the message has a clear plan to improve the quality of life of the Kazakh population and implement the tasks set earlier, "said A. Bizhkenova.
One of the types of special social services is the creation of an alternative type of boarding houses for children and the elderly with disabilities, neuropsychiatric diseases, as well as musculoskeletal devices.
major expert groups, long-term and short-term observers.
according to him, global instability will allow taking anti-crisis measures in Kazakhstan.
The Minister also noted that information about the age of the child, his photos in accordance with the legislation on informatization will be managed by labels, and those who want to adopt the child will be able to receive such information.
each line has a sign of authenticity. "
The Minister thanked the Kyrgyz diplomat for the work done to strengthen interstate cooperation in Kazakhstan, the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
In order to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank, on January 21, 2016 at the World Economic Forum in Davos, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Bank signed an agreement on the creation and functioning of offices in the Republic of Kazakhstan. in order to strengthen cooperation , kazakhstan and the world bank , on 21 january 2016 at the world economic forum in davos , signed an agreement on the establishment and functioning of the offices in the republic of kazakhstan .
for example, a whole ensemble specifically performed from Georgia for this.
At the plenary session, the Secretary-General noted that strengthening security and cooperation should be a priority of the organization's work. in his speech ye.idrissov said that the strengthening of security and cooperation should be a priority , because all these events affect the situation in the osce .
in the seaport there is a veterinary service, phytosanitary, sanitary-quarantine and round-the-clock transport control service.
the only requirement is that consumers use their services.
now Kazakhstan has the goal of finding a response to the global economic crisis and contrary trends taking place in the world. kazakhstan has faced challenges to overcome the global economic crisis and to search for the new answers .
for representatives of ethnic diasporas, the study of native languages ​ ​ and the state language is supported.
Following the signing of the memoranda, the parties expressed their intention to partner in order to develop the domestic agro-industrial complex in Kazakhstan, increase the availability of financial services to the population and organization in all regions of the country.
In order to implement the fourth direction of the message, together with the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and 166 enterprises in 41 of the 80 colleges of the region, dual training is being conducted in 36 specialties.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed gratitude for the opportunity to meet with former partners and discuss with them ways to further strengthen the Kazakh-American integration.
Also, according to him, a number of projects in the tourism sector are planned.
- How much do Kazakhstanis buy lamb?
one of them is public service centers.
At the request of M. Rüitt, the senator present at the meeting gave a brief overview of the oil and gas industry, including the production of a Kashagan mine with the participation of the Dutch-British company royal dutch shell.
documents are approved and considered by the collegiate council.
at the concert, famous artists of Kazakhstan, stars of domestic cinema and pop performed popular songs in films dedicated to the love of all the people.
for example, there is no single health facility for leukemia.
the CIS mission may include delegations of the CIS interparliamentary assembly, meetings of the Belarusian and Russian unions, the parliamentary assembly of the Collective Security Treaty organization.
Within the framework of the video conference, the report of the director of the Almaty Center for Topical Research "Alternative" Andrei Chebotarev was presented on the topic: "Parliamentary elections in Kazakhstan-2016: features and results."
The adoption of the UN resolution was a confirmation of the independent foreign policy course of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and the optimal attitude to the existing world.
being a soldier is my way. being a soldier is my life 's mission .
openness in the provision of services, initiatives to reduce administrative barriers should be implemented in the text of state reporting to society, and not vice versa, "said Dariga Nazarbayeva.
the family lives in Aktobe.
Speaking about military infrastructure, more than 40 facilities were commissioned in different regions, more than 120 buildings, structures and engineering networks were overhauled.
this is 1.5 times more than last year.
As a result of electricity exports to Kyrgyzstan and Russia, pressure increased on Ekibastuz Gres-1 AK and Ekibastuz Gres-2 station.
Since the beginning of the year, 36 complaints have been received against the actions of employees of the Poltava region, as a result of which 9 police officers, including two management officers, have been disciplined.
As noted at the meeting, Kazakhstan is interested in leading Austrian technologies and know-how, and Austria is interested in energy supplies.
The parties discussed the implementation of the project "Innovative development of Aktobe region."
We noticed great growth opportunities of Mangistau region for business.
he called on the Czech business environment to actively cooperate with Kazakhstan.
The decree of the Majilis on elections signed by the President reflects the main priorities of the head of state with our country. the signed decree of the president on snap elections in the majilis of the kazakh parliament stresses that the stability , harmony are the most important priorities for the country and the head of state to overcome the difficulties experienced by the whole world .
Kazakhstanis have a desire, a will to implement the most important projects, "he said.
Therefore, I think that on March 20, 2016 there will be a very important political situation.
issues of water management of transboundary rivers, strengthening cultural and humanitarian ties and cooperation in the field of tourism were also considered.
new Kazakh laws, which contribute to the achievement of high world development standards by Kazakhstan, have already begun to function.
Following the meeting, Iranian investors invited the authorities of Aktobe region to approve an agreement on long-term business and scientific cooperation for the development of livestock in the region.
Last year alone, 8.4 thousand tons of fish were caught in the region.
I held a number of meetings, talked with experts, politicians, heads of business and financial organizations, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to the document, the company took over the costs of transferring the oil pipeline in the amount of 1.8 billion tenge.
the lowest regions identified the South Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions, where the income level of the population is below the average republican level per 37-43%.
The Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan is the first women's organization in the country.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-February 2016 amounted to 104%.
Recall that the kazgrain group of companies is a young, developing business that has great growth potential in the agro-industrial sector and is of strategic importance for the economy of the region.
I believe that the parliament needs people who know about the legislative process, "he said.
as an economist and financier, I was influenced by the fulfillment of social tasks, despite the difficult period of the head of state's message. as an economist and financier , i was impressed in the address that in spite of the global economic situation , the state tries to fulfill all social obligations .
Also, an exhibition of fencing masters was organized at the festival, books, national clothes and crafts were presented, the press service of the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region reports.
in the future it is planned to transform Rechmunaiservice LLP into a joint stock company, which will provide the necessary independence to the enterprise, ensure the necessary management responsibility, as well as compliance with corporate governance requirements and transparency.
the population is more than one billion.
the creation of the space industry - more than one tenth of the time. creating space industry is time consuming process .
the second is the employer.
Following the meeting, the Dutch king noted the importance of the upcoming bilateral relations and expressed hope for a visit to Kazakhstan.
elections are a manifestation of the political freedom of citizens.
stocks of fuel and lubricants, inert materials for flood prevention and elimination of their consequences have been prepared, snow is being exported in settlements.
in the Alatau and Medile districts of Almaty, universiade facilities will open new sports centers.
for this, President Nazarbayev proposed to develop and implement a comprehensive doctrine.
Currently, more than 50 teachers from 10 colleges have qualified. at the moment more than 50 teachers from 10 colleges have been trained .
Note that sportfestastana is a unique project aimed at popularizing physical culture, sports and a healthy lifestyle.
we recently witnessed the formation of this fund and see that today it begins work.
the entry of the plant into the international market opens up new opportunities for development.
By the end of the year, types of services will be approved, which can be carried out by legal entities in accordance with the principles of yellow pages rules.
another financing tool is the forward purchase of wheat and barley through another subsidiary of Kazagro - the "food corps" uk. "
The task of the government is to achieve more effective work of our universities and institutions for our country, the economy. the autonomy of universities - clear , transparent , democratic university , finances , choice of priorities , synchronization governance system .
Also, a fellow countryman, 7-time champion of Kazakhstan in chess, world and Asian champion among schoolchildren handed the certificate and badge of the title of Fide Master of the International Chess Federation, Vice President of the Chess Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, President of the Regional Chess Federation Marat Yesenov.
dear friends, I congratulate on today's holiday the name of the national museum of Kazakhstan. dear friends , i would like to congratulate you on today 's event .
Sarah Nurgalieva began her translation journey from the Leninist television studio, becoming the editor-in-chief of the Baikonur television company.
we need to draw the attention of all participants, such as the Samruk Kazyna Fund, the Baiterek Fund and the financial organizations of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
we are always ready to share the experience of creating a financial center, "said the investor.
each leader of the youth league contributes to strengthening peace and harmony, "summed up the chairman of the youth league" white sail. "
He noted that Kazakhstan now has a clear plan in response to global tests.
The expert spoke about the creation of a free trade zone to overcome the global crisis.
the parties noted the systemic development of bilateral relations, as well as the great potential for expanding their sphere.
this will tentatively begin in June.
according to him, over the past few years alone, an effective system of interaction has been created and helped Kazakhstan implement more than 170 important projects.
Note that the reception of candidates will last until February 19, and registration - until February 23.
At the same time, the location of the eurozone between Europe, China, Asia provides us with the necessary priorities, "said the speaker of the Majilis.
and when answering the question about testing laboratories that allow for complete testing of navigation instruments, testing and research of products for compliance with the requirements of technical regulations not only with the subjects of the market of Kazakhstan, but also certification and testing laboratories of the customs union (centers) noted that this will be carried out by all member states of the Eurasian Economic Union included in the unified register of bodies (www.eurasiancommission.org and www.nca.kz)
There is a secretariat for logistics and a department, and they are working on this issue, "said Kanahina, director of the regional development department of the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
this is a result that is achieved as a result of the authority of the head of state.
The metropolitan employment center carries out a lot of work on the employment and retraining of the population, especially young people.
and all these services are free to the user.
The result of the work will be work to increase the competitiveness of domestic banks, which will contribute to Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO and its activities in the financial sector. the results of work should be improvement of the competitiveness of the domestic banks , which will compete in the financial markets within kazakhstan 's accession to the wto and the functioning of the eaeu .
six parties will take part in the elections. probably , six parties will participate in the current campaign .
accordingly, a commercial unit is created in our industry, the driver of which is the optimization of our assets and the construction of a new industry.
therefore, investors often come to exhibitions organized by us and are interested in the capabilities of Almaty, "said Yu.Burodin.
in economic policy, priority is given to the development of infrastructure, while Kazakhstan can achieve significant success, "said a foreign political scientist.
At the end of the meeting, the diplomat expressed gratitude for the warm welcome, thanked the Governor of the region and agreed on the further development of entrepreneurship.
K.Massimov also congratulated you on the successful holding of the nuclear security summit and emphasized the common goals of our countries in this area.
As a result of the program "Nұrly zhol" in Almaty region 1,442 km of roads will be reconstructed.
It is expected that the cathodic copper processing complex will reach a production capacity of 15 thousand tons per year within six months.
In addition, he reported that the diamond-lead road project, which was under construction, fell into the first and second technical categories.
also in social networks of diplomatic missions, "said R. Vasilenko.
aa. idriss also participated in a ministerial event on "The Next Secretary-General in the World of Risks: Predictions and Truth."
Kazakhstan will make every effort to further develop our integration association and during its chairmanship will actively work to deepen ties with the Shanghai cooperation organization.
the short-term economic indicator in January-February 2016 amounted to 99.5% by January-February 2015. manufacturing industry production increased by 0.8 % .
Mukhtar's visit Friday to our country was organized as part of the participation in the international conference "Religion against Terrorism," held today in the capital, and the next meeting of the board of trustees of the Egyptian University of Islamic Culture "Nur-Mubarak," which will be held in the coming days.
a total of 301 observers are accredited to the mission. the cis observation mission continues monitoring the elections of deputies .
this is also an important matter, "the expert added.
The new State strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is aimed at mobilizing efforts to ensure full human development.
the fair featured light industry products, felt products, fur products, shoes for adults and children, cosmetics, household chemicals, sports equipment.
The event was attended by members of the US Congress, including Senator John Hoven, Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Relations, Congressmen Wise Rohrabakers, Robert Aderholt, Elsie Hastings, Javier Becker and others.
For twenty-three years, Buudb has made a significant contribution to reforms and transformation in Kazakhstan, "- said K. Tokayev.
Activities held within the framework of the health festival contribute to sustainable immunity, reduce the risk of infectious, cardiovascular diseases, influenza, increase life expectancy, increase labor productivity, and generally good health.
this was a response to the global crisis.
Today, to support women's entrepreneurship, the Development Fund has provided financial assistance to small and medium-sized businesses in the amount of more than 1 billion tenge, the Asian Development Bank has financed 412 projects of women entrepreneurs since 2011, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has allocated a loan totaling 41 million US dollars, "the state account said.
Kazakhstan pays special attention to rabbit breeding.
The large Uzbek partnership engaged in the export of fruits and vegetables from abroad considers Kazakhstan an effective investment environment. the large uzbek company , engaged in the export of fruits and vegetables abroad , reports that kazakhstan has the ideal investment climate .
As the Speaker of the House noted, the expansion and deepening of partnerships with the European Union is one of the priority areas of our country's foreign policy.	b. izmukhambetov has noted that the strengthening of partnerships with the european union is one of the priorities of the foreign policy of our country .	0,88
the deputy is not only a legislator, but also, first of all, a mass political scientist.	it is not just a lawmaker , primarily it is a public figure , face .	0,88
deposits of obligations will be mandatory to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.	depositary 's functions assigned to the ministry of foreign affairs of the russian federation .	0,88
he created a witness, a special index that introduces leading developed companies.	evidence of this is that a special code , which included several developed companies , has been created .	0,88
Expressing readiness for equal and mutually beneficial partnership, we encourage and support cultural cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Great Britain, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
Land sales will begin in July.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan supports the holding of meetings and elections of maslikhats at all levels. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan supports early elections .
we attach particular importance to how these elections took place.
The head of the region also spoke about the mineral fertilizer plant in the Zhambyl region and the possibility of supplying ammophos, tricalcium phosphate and superphosphate.
Today, Kazakhstan has significant potential for charitable improvement of the lives of citizens, ensuring human-centred development.
It should be noted that on the first official visit to Kazakhstan, the Egyptian President visited Abdel Fattah.
According to N. Kalashnikova, during charitable activities, kha is currently developing additional events, programs with public foundations, national companies, and banking sectors.
The purpose of the project is to develop the national system of qualifications, increase the relevance of technical and vocational education, higher education and training programs; improvement of target beneficiary indicators in the field of labor skills and employment, training of highly qualified specialists with the required qualifications in the labor market.
Note that the program is still underway.
one of the participants of the exhibition is Eurocomopter Kazakhstan Engineering LLP, which assembles and maintains es-145 helicopters.
The meeting, chaired by Timur Suleimenov, member of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission on Economics and Financial Policy, was attended by representatives of the states of the Eurasian Economic Union, members of the advisory committee from the state body and members of the business community, employees of the commission and representatives of public organizations.
discrimination in the convention "includes any distinction, denial, restriction, privilege on the basis of race, colour, sex, language, religious, political or other belief, national or social origin, economic status or birth, the purpose or effect of which is to abolish or violate equality in education.
today we will implement this policy.
candidates have the right to proxy no more than three. candidates have the right to work with no more than three agents .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions.
all of them are not only family regulars, but also the pride of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy.
As previously reported, a public council has been created under the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan from among Kazakhstani and Kazakhstani social activists.
simultaneously hold elections to maslikhats and majilis at all levels.	therefore , i believe that  identity and unity " is a basic point of five institutional reforms , " bashmakov has noted .
According to Bulat Rysmendiyev, in 2015 the 1 investment project totaling 5.0 billion tenge was included in the map of regional industrialization.
Combining our subsidiaries that carry out similar services for capital and ongoing well repair will increase the competitiveness of joint oil services companies and open up new opportunities for entering other regions of the country, "said Ekatiev Kurmangazy.
the exit poll was held from 7 am to 8 pm at 750 polling stations, including 513 urban and 237 rural settlements.
All Kazakhstanis knew about the heroism of Dmitry Olegovich's homeland. everyone has learned the feat of dmitry olegovich rodin , the aircraft commander .
The fund's seven largest companies are at the stage of implementing a transformation program.
we highly appreciate the fifth meetings of deputies of the Majilis.
The national plan for the implementation of 5 institutional plans of the head of state "100 concrete steps."
- The level of trade turnover between us decreased last year.
Assistance from Kazakhstan will be aimed at improving the daily life of families in local administrative territories and the further sustainable development of people suffering from poverty in the Ecuadorian region, the report said.
The body has at least 3 candidates per seat.
the country was working on a programme to support Africans.
I am glad that the sports facilities of the Universiade at the end of the competition will be put into operation for all residents of Almaty as a legacy of the Universiade 2017.
According to him, Kazakhstan should continue to develop agriculture, because this is the basis of the country's economy.
To date, we have concluded contracts with more than 30 Kazakhstani companies. we have signed contracts with more than 30 companies .
On January 1, 2016, the practical stage of the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation began.
From April 1, the Ministry of Internal Affairs will prohibit its employees from using smartphones.
At the security council meeting, the head of state gave strategic specific instructions and a number of systemic instructions that are aimed at ensuring the security of the nation. during the security council meeting , the president gave a number of specific instructions of strategic and systematic character aimed at ensuring the national security .
In addition, the Governor of the region held a meeting with the heads of the Agency of Strategic Initiatives and the Russian Venture Company created by the Government of the Russian Federation in order to implement a set of measures in the economic and social sphere for the development of the entrepreneurial environment.
Zh. Asanov, meeting a Malaysian counterpart on Kazakh soil, noted the friendly and constructive nature of bilateral relations in the legal sphere.
parties provide an opportunity to improve their qualifications in the election campaign, strengthen their organizations and allow checking programs in practice.
2.4 billion tenge was recovered from customs payments and taxes for 3 months, that is, the forecast task was completed by 104.7%.
also in these countries there are investments of production and industrial companies, which Kazakhstan wants to attract.
this increased the republican average by three times.
It is worth noting that all users of the treasury can take part in the action, who should record the hashtag # menelesim, # why yulyublukazakhstan.
to the production of a house, hotel, restaurant product and knitwear.
Despite this, the Head of State from January 1, 2016 decided to increase wages for public sector employees from 28 to 40%.
According to Sarsembayev. "
it is worth noting that the work at the above construction sites is carried out in accordance with the established schedule.
the economic belt of the silk road and the Eurasian Economic Union have a natural and clear point of contact. we believe one belt , one road and the eurasian economic union have a lot in common .
Politegeniz in Kazakhstan has developed on the basis of the civilization of young nomads.
According to Bauyrzhan Smagulov, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Construction, Housing and Communal Services and Land Management of Kazakhstan, the total area of ​ ​ land allocated for agriculture is currently 100.8 million hectares, while only 1.3% of agricultural land (1.3 million hectares) is privately owned.
This is also one of the features of the plant where energy-saving glass is produced.
detailed information was also provided on the system of professional development of civil servants in Kazakhstan.
technical and vocational education should become one of the main areas of investment policy.
Of course, each such concept gives this state its own special qualities.
It should be noted that in 2015 4.8 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of infrastructure.
the second place - on the Internet resource of the akimat of Karaganda region, the third - on the website of Almaty.
Following the results of the parliamentary elections, 3 parties and 9 deputies of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan were held.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies and organizers from Kazakhstan.
The delegation included the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Ecu, the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Germany bolat nusips, representatives of relevant ministries and departments, as well as national companies.
intensive economic development requires special attention to the process of forming a new type of labor relations.
Cooperation has been initiated with major global players implementing industry technologies to influence new technologies on traditional industries. in view of the intensified impact of new technologies on traditional industries , cooperation with leading global players has started for the introduction of the new technology .
my father is Azerbaijani, my mother is Russian, and my husband is Kazakh.
During the meeting, the participants noted the joint work of universal Kazakhstan on the implementation of UN standards in the field of human rights and democracies, and also spoke about the implementation of practical work developed in 2013-2015, the Foreign Ministry said.
As of January 1, 2016, 9,791,165 people were included in the voter lists, "he said.
Employees of kgf uk, who are the national operator of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan, will share their experience in working with new space technologies.
the football field must be at each local location. the football field should be in each settlement .
the issue of insurance of agricultural production is the subject of new regulations. the issue of insurance of agricultural production needs to be resolved in the new legal acts .
We are pleased that the agreements signed today, providing for the investment of Iranian companies in the Kazakh economy, are industries in which Iranian companies have made great progress. we are pleased to note that the agreements include the investment of iranian companies in those sectors of the economy of kazakhstan , where iranian companies have made great progress .
first of all, this is due to the scale of radical Islam and new international terrorism, an increase in the activity of igiles in the middle east, "said A. Kvasnevsky.
In addition, projects located in the capital are carefully selected.
Since May 7, 1992, soldiers and sailors, officers, generals and admirals on all avenues surround our homeland.
The volume of direct lending to bank entities increases annually.
A copy of the victory flag, which depicts our hero, descendant, Koshkarbayev, was transferred to the museum. the copy of the victory banner , which was set up by our ancestor rakhimzhan koshkarbayev , was transferred to the museum .
thus, the productivity review suggests the introduction of an integrated and intersectoral relationship.
Deliveries are planned in the future through the Kazakh enterprise "Special Design and Technology Bureau" Granit, "which will provide service and maintenance, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
he suggested starting cooperation with American government and business tribes.
this solar power plant was put into operation during the industrialization day on July 2, 2015 with the participation of the head of state.
Universiade games under the fisu wing are responsible and interesting competitions of a high level. winter universiade fisu - it 's always an exciting and interesting high-level event .
it is necessary to include representatives of kindergartens, in equal form state, private, pupils of all forms, to cover information that they did not pass, "he said.
they will see in our experience an example of wisdom, constructive actions and steadfast strength before any difficulties, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2016, 59 laws were adopted, including on the fight against corruption, in 2015-2025. an anti-corruption strategy was launched.
The mission objective is the qualitative improvement of the draft agreement taking into account the interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the Kazakh people in difficult times befell our parents.
we now understand that many circumstances concern specialists and experts in this field.
my father is Azerbaijani, my mother is Russian, and my wife is Kazakh.
The central apparatus and branches of the party are instructed to take all necessary organizational measures for the congress.
Also, cooperatives can include not only peasant farms, but also legal entities, "said a representative of the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
that is, it is again a difficult process in global politics, new players are offered.
The parties noted with satisfaction the level of relations between the competent authorities of Kazakhstan and France in the field of combating crime, ensuring the rule of law and protecting human rights, and also expressed their readiness to fully expand and develop cooperation in the interests of the peoples of the two countries in order to strengthen stability and international security.
According to the expert, all the guidelines and recommendations for the elections are well developed.
projects are selected by the regional chamber of entrepreneurs.
we are moving from a passive investor to a strategic investor model.
in the framework of the sermon achieved, cefc made a number of commitments, according to which they invest in the countries of Europe and the silk road.
the guys showed their skill in two age groups.
we cannot say that all we need is good. everything , that is imported , does not mean better .
As a result of large-scale repair work organized by the Station Service joint-stock company, internal electric networks of the station, a thermal system, air conditioning, outdoor lighting, communication and alarm devices, fire equipment were updated.
To correct the events, the Government of Kazakhstan adopted a number of decisions agreed with international agreements on gender equality.
in the first decade - the most difficult period of independence - we lived mainly "without oil."
The KHA is working to popularize the Kazakh model of social harmony and unity. the apk carried out the constant work to promote kazakhstan 's model of the social cohesion and unity abroad .
a separate court proceedings on investment disputes have been created in the republic.
We want the elections to be successful and legal. "
The traditional meeting was attended by civil society of Kazakhstan, official representatives, representatives of international organizations, a couple, an ecu, a deputy of the Bundestag of the federal German republic, the head of the German delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe axel fisher.
During the meeting, the head of the Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan thanked the mission for the work done and noted the positive assessment of the ecu/diakb in the effective organization of the elections.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that today an effective army has been formed in the republic, an armed supply program is being successfully implemented, care is being taken about the social situation of military personnel.
firstly, the current meeting fulfilled its historical mission, prepared a legislative framework for the implementation of the national plan. firstly , the current majilis has fulfilled its historic mission , has created a legal framework in implementation of the national plan .
we must all understand that if this happens, we will come together and cope.
the reserve will be formed in two ways: based on the results of the certification and on the results of the performance assessment.
such integration is undisputed and a response to the requirements of time, requires the parties to further increase economic cooperation both within and outside its borders, A. Bizhanov said.
I can say that at present the cost of entering the exhibition will be somewhat more expensive than the cost of a movie ticket, "he said.
I call on all political parties, public associations and all citizens to participate actively in the implementation of this message, focusing on a common cause for the benefit of our Motherland with one bank, one sleeve.
to develop Islamic financing in the country, these instruments must be used in financial transactions.
An important document was signed in the presence of the President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy Uk, Askar Mama and the General Director of Ulyanik, Jean Rosan, President of the Croatian Republic.
The state agency has a very big issue on anti-corruption. it 's a big issue , related to corruption in state agencies .
all these languages ​ ​ have now been destroyed, "he said.
reduced level of tribal animals introduction. it was decided to reduce the import of breeding cattle .
carry out its campaigning activities only within the existing legal framework for holding open, fair and transparent elections, "said the Chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan.
bakytzhan sagintayev and igor shuvalov also discussed topical issues within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
candidates are currently registered for self-nomination, and there were no representatives of the political party yet. currently the candidates through self-nomination have been registered , the representatives of political parties are not fixed .
Such universal work helps people to feel each other and unite around human ideas. "
Work in the election commission of the region is carried out at a meeting and elections to maslikhats of all levels. the regional election commission works on the preparation of the elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels .
mission representatives visited territorial and precinct election commissions of Astana, Akmola and Karaganda region.	as for the work of the cec , the expert noted that the cec consistently and purposefully conducts the work on preparation and holding of the election campaign .	0,88
According to him, Kyrgyzstan is interested in the stability of Kazakhstan, which is on the path of reform and transformation.	according to him , kyrgyzstan is interested in stable kazakhstan , which follows the path of reforms and transformations .	0,88
so, agricultural organizations of North Kazakhstan region "cooperate with the scientific center of agricultural holding.
At the same time, the countries of the union begin negotiations with the Serbs.
we hope that the celebration of the Day of Mercy, Love and Gratitude, which can be accepted as a universal day of Kazakh charity, will become a good tradition, the letter says.
then this art was forgotten, and then again taken up.
our close neighbors - the Russian union - left before the dollar.
all conditions for effective work in this field have been created, an appropriate legal framework has been created.
in accordance with the current legislation, in the document submitted to the head of State, an examination of the human rights situation in the country is carried out, including on the basis of statements received from citizens, projects to protect rights, monitoring in the regions, as well as information from state bodies, non-governmental and international organizations.
The international observer also noted that the Central Election Commission of Malaysia plans to use the experience of holding elections in Kazakhstan.
In addition, large-scale work will be carried out in the regions to explain the principles and priorities of cooperation.
The meeting was informed by Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of Akhmediyarov, Deputy Mayor of Astana, First Deputy Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017.
One of the main issues in the work of the CIS Security Council was the adoption of a statement "on uniting efforts in the fight against international terrorism."
During a meeting with the Chairman of the State Duma of the Russian Federal Assembly, Sergei Naryshkin, the subject of discussion was ensuring regional stability.
the growth of the economic sector is influenced by new sectors created through innovative industrialization.
and yesterday, January 20, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a resolution on the dissolution of meetings of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we pay great attention to improving energy efficiency.
these projects will continue to be produced in the future.
the biggest and longest goal is to create a civil society. "
Dear veterans, let your lives be long and rich, we will always be indebted to you, "said B. Baibek.
they came into force.
You're graduating from an excellent high school.
the economic situation, the standard of living of the population, and the food security of our region depend significantly on the stable functioning of the agricultural sector. the state of the economy , the standard of living of the population , food security of our region largely depends on the sustainable operation of the agricultural sector .
The main topics on the agenda were the issues of international terrorist trade, migration, money laundering, financial autonomy, the independence of prosecutorial activities and the role of associations in ensuring it.
all state bodies and the parent committee, the veterans' council, non-governmental organizations, youth and youth associations will be united.
And the centralized water supply to the population amounted to 84.4% and 57.8 thousand people are employed, "said the head of the department.
The greenhouse construction project is being carried out as part of the implementation of the head of state's program for the development of import substitution and food security, "the report said.
One of the anti-corruption programs is an open government, which, on behalf of the president, will begin work in the near future. one of the main directions of the anti-corruption is the open government , which should start working soon .
Of course, early elections will have their own burden.
design capacity of 1,500 tons of vegetables per year.
According to him, this year the average score in the republic was 81.2.
that is, they have a great interest in participating in the elections.
It was attended by professional and amateur mediators of the region, members of the regional council of public consent, chairmen of ethnocultural associations, representatives of the regions, the press service of the center of public consent said.
of which 89 are eku/diakb mission observers, 8 are CIS mission observers, 14 are from the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, 17 are from the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking countries, 79 are from foreign countries, "the press service said.
The purpose of the memorandum is to promote full cooperation, efficiency and trade between eo and Singapore.
However, from this date, scientists in all universities should work and share their achievements in the field of the green economy.
including educational activities, instructional classes with theoretical and practical training.
The Head of State noted the importance of promoting goods of Kazakhstan production, especially in foreign markets, and also noted the need for active work of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs in the field of attracting investment, agricultural cooperation, employment and training of the population of rural regions.
The head of the region also noted that the unity and unity of our state flag has become a symbol of a united country.
According to him, cross-border issues remain relevant for the successful implementation of the food trading network.
"We, recalling our compatriots and the suffering that they experienced, nobly recall the Kazakhs who accepted immigrants in difficult times as their brothers," wrote S. Karchev.
Now, as a metropolis, we must support private capital and private initiatives, ensure that business opens up jobs, "said B. Baibek.
photo from the site
this is our beauty and special pride.
Thanks to the measures taken, 471 houses were drained, more than 500 people returned to their place of residence.
rising oil prices will allow companies to implement this year's plan.
Photo from the site kagro.kz
in geography, biology, mathematics, physics and other subjects.
The agreement will also be implemented in relation to senior managers, managers, specialists, which will determine their qualification characteristics.
in the East Kazakhstan region, growth is the main economic, industrial, and financial basis.
During the talks, special attention was paid to issues of trade, economic, investment cooperation and cooperation in this direction.
the signing by the president of a decree on holding early elections at a meeting of the parliament is a way out of the difficulties of stability, consent and economic, political for our country. the presidential decree on snap elections in the majilis stresses that the most important priorities for our country and its leader is stability , harmony and overcoming the difficulties , experienced by the whole world , not only politically , but also economically .
This will increase the capacity of local specialists and contribute to the creation of the necessary infrastructure.
Now the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state is to ensure that the entire population, including you, are experienced, hardworking, patriotic citizens, "said the Secretary of State.
The head of state noted that in accordance with the requirements of the constitution of the country, he held consultations with the chairmen of the houses of parliament, the prime minister and the chairman of the constitutional council, following which it was decided to support the initiative of the deputies.
O.Suleymen thanked for the high title and noted that this is an indicator of support for all Kazakh literature.
a polymetallic company is a mining company with a high-quality asset portfolio that introduces requirements for the production of silver and gold.
It is also planned to participate in the opening ceremony of the main Christmas tree of the country.
Since 2010, Kazakhstan has increased its competitiveness in the global index. since 2010 , kazakhstan has improved its position in the global competitiveness index .
to date, there are 3952 enterprises in Zhambyl region, of which 1721 collective agreements have been concluded or 43.5%.
Last year athletes of Almaty region achieved significant successes and won 1251 medals at competitions of various levels. over 2015 year athletes of almaty region have achieved a lot and won 1251 medals in sports at different levels .
Note that girls, along with men, are engaged in combat, combat training, a charter, military topography and other military science.
President Nazarbayev has the opportunity to realize and take measures in advance.
in addition, the second five-year plan of the industrial and innovative development program began.
During the meeting, issues of implementation of existing joint projects were discussed, as well as promising areas of cooperation.
Speaking about the important trade and economic partnership between the two countries, Ye.Dyrissov proposed to develop a partnership in the field of agriculture.
We became a great country that gained independence, gathered the memory of the country, destroyed everything and glorified everyone. nurly zhol - path to future " program , proposed by the head of state , defines further country 's development priorities under the new conditions .
As part of the meeting, members of the state commission and invited participants witnessed the opening of the photo exhibition "History of Independence: the Pace of Development of the Kazakh Way," dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence.
we use only waste paper in the production of toilet paper - outdated archival documents of state bodies and oil companies.
It is noted that the finished products of the plant will be aimed at the construction of housing, boiler villages and the construction of industrial facilities and roads.
because now we must develop reforms.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the exchange of experience and constant working contacts of museums will make a significant contribution to the preservation of the rich cultural and historical heritage of the peoples of Kazakhstan and Russia.
The delegation of the Penza region included the chairman of the regional legislative assembly Valery Lidin, heads of ministries and departments, representatives of business communities, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, heads of enterprises, regional financial and educational institutions.
Japan is a partner of Kazakhstan in many areas.
The most convenient ways for the development of the state were selected, when the current situation and prospects for development, the principles of reform were taken into account.
According to the head of the company, in October this year the construction work should be completed and the facilities transferred for replenishment.
the state provides benefits to one and a half million citizens.
by metaphysical understanding for our president, economics is an instrument, a method.
incomes play an important role in the welfare system.
One of the next issues is the employment of the rural population.
simultaneously with the construction of the automobile plant, it is planned to gradually create its own plant, as well as a joint venture for the production of auto parts for other automakers in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Guests from the CIS countries and Europe shared their experience in organizing a pre-trial investigation.
regulation of garden activities during election campaigning is an important part of ensuring transparency, transparency and fairness of the electoral process, "said a member of the Central Election Commission.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked the Russian Orthodox Church for the high appreciation of the country's policy aimed at strengthening interfaith harmony.
historical drama was shot in Kazakhstan, Belarus and Azerbaijan.
the diplomat also spoke about the work carried out by the French diplomatic mission to expand and strengthen international cooperation between Kazakhstan and France.
during the election, all observers cover the regions.
A 100 percent stake in these airports will be in the trust of the Amg company managing the state airports of the republic, the press service of the company said.
I am sure that after graduating from management training in the field of education and receiving the post of master, they will become the best specialists in the implementation of dual training, who will carry out the process of transition to 12-year training, "said the deputy akim of Mangistau region banu nurgaziyeva.
Kazakhstan will also take the baton of chairing the organization from Uzbekistan at the Tashkent summit.
he noted that the high authority of the President of Kazakhstan is also known among the Chinese people.
he noted that the state is a regulator, it ensures the legality of all work.
with related cash assistance, the family enters into a social contract, and both parties to the social contract, that is, the applicant needs this assistance, and under the social program the unit will undertake obligations.
Recall worldskills is an international non-profit movement, the purpose of which is to improve the skills of workers.
We must successfully hold elections in the coming day, "said T. Shirmer.
at the very beginning it was hard.
I think that the development of a mutually beneficial partnership between the company and the bank will contribute to the growth of the quality of services, an increase in customer orientation, "said the vice president of Ktzh - the goal of Kabashev.
The Chairman of the fair jury, summing up the results of the event, noted that under the leadership of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan is successfully implementing democratic transformations, as well as comprehensively developing the economy and strengthening the social sphere.
in addition to school uniforms, the exhibition featured sports uniforms, knitwear, clothing for teachers, military clothing for high school students.
currently, the Iranian airline Mahan Air flies between Tehran and Almaty cities 2 times a week.
That is, we must investigate this, discuss it with the population. school issues relate to each family , each of us .
its goal is to jointly solve the pressing problems of refugees and international migration of a regional format and a global perspective.
theatrical performance of the best children's creative groups in the city of Taraz "balasagun."
According to him, at the moment the declared amount of property in the country has reached 1.4 trillion tenge, of which about 1.2 trillion tenge has been legalized.
on the instructions of the head of state, the commission on land reform, which you head, will now be transferred to Askar Myrzakhmetov, "the Prime Minister said.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the German side about the visit of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the EU Federica Mogherini to the capital in December 2015, the signing of a new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, as well as Kazakhstan's contribution to a comprehensive plan of joint actions in resolving the situation around the Iranian nuclear program.
provides assistance and services to start-up entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs leading the business center to open and conduct small and medium-sized businesses on the principle of "one window."
the number of employed in the economy amounted to 286.9 thousand people.
hundreds of millions of people died in them, cities and countries disappeared, cultures and civilizations were destroyed.
The world exhibition in the capital will be held within three months.
the amount allocated is $75.3 million.
Kazakhstan and the ICD signed an agreement "Xi agriment."
at the extraordinary XVII Congress of the Nұr Otan Party, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, posed many questions to society as part of an anti-crisis strategy.
in accordance with the signed memorandum between the Department of Industry and Industrial and Innovative Development of Almaty and lynx-eyevres, the plant will receive a land plot, the Governor's Office of the city reported.
marat rakhimovich kusain to the post of commander of the regional command "south";
here you can play national instruments, develop creativity, master oratory art.
banks that cannot solve the problem of capitalization should leave the financial market, "said N. Nazarbayev.
for example, the Minister of Finance of the Sultans or the 70s of the birth of the Dosts, whiskers, all of them chief ministers.
the plan of the nation of N. Nazarbayev is the way to the Kazakh dream. "
On February 3, the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan registered the party list of the Nur Otan party.
The goal of the project is to provide Astana residents with high-level pathological diagnostics, "said A. Masakova.
The total value of legalized property is 4 million 640 thousand tenge, "- said the head of the financial department.
One of the important events for the youth of the capital is the job fair. one of the most important events held in the capital are job fairs where employers offered vacant places .
at 49 objects of the city and the district - 292.7 km of roads and 2 bridges, 1 railway crossing, 1 underground and 2 land crossings.
these measures have developed the necessary legislative and methodological framework for fuel and lubricants, "said M. Susainov.
today it is important to remove barriers to legalization of public sector companies. it is important to remove the restrictions on the privatization of the public sector .
This means that residents of remote villages will be able to use electronic services, online sales, distance learning.
According to him, in the next convocation of the lower house of parliament, the economic bloc will be strengthened.
a feature of this meeting is the participation of the heads of international parliamentary organizations - chairmen of the inter-parliamentary union, the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, the parliamentary assembly of ecu, as well as invited chairmen of parliaments of various countries.
I think that Kazakhstan has a good trend.
The sides also discussed the preparations for the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017.
deputies of the three parliamentary factions, realizing the full responsibility of the current historical moment, accepted this appeal. being aware of the responsibility of the current historical moment , common tasks , this appeal is accepted by the deputies of all three parliamentary factions .
The document was signed by the Chairman of the Board of Baiterek Kuandyk Bishimbayev Holding and the President of the Vang Yang Silk Road Fund.
this encourages the involvement of young people in health care.
we must open up new internal sources of growth by developing private initiatives.
In the third section, "The Way of the Head of State," books will be presented describing the activities of the first head of state, closely related to the history of independent Kazakhstan.
more than two thousand people gathered at the meeting.
Currently, more than 140 foreign investors are working in the field of processing in Kazakhstan. currently , in kazakhstan there more than 140 foreign investors operating in the manufacturing industry .
According to the CEC, 581 of them apply for the post of regional maslikhat, 21 for the maslikhat of the capital, 95 for the maslikhats of Almaty.
The global goal of the coming decade should be to end wars and conflicts in Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Libya and Syria, in eastern Ukraine and the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.
we are pleased that the mission highly appreciated the conscientious work of the election organizers. "
It defines a change in the concept of the antimonopoly service and all this in accordance with OECD standards - this will be the basis for the development of the bill, "said Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Aydar Arifkhanov during the presentation of the bill.
According to the Minister, Kazakhstan is currently among the 50 countries on space technologies and 10 countries on high-resolution technology.
the association brings together thousands of world experts.
The heads of the Estonian and Polish diplomatic missions noted that further deepening of parliamentary, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties will contribute to strengthening mutually beneficial relations with Kazakhstan.
Next week we will complete these seminars, in Petropavlovsk they will end on February 4, 2016, "said A. Sakpkereev.
Special Major General of Foreign Intelligence Aden Kuzembek Stenbayev;
unity, stability, building is the foundation of our great values ​ ​ and achievements.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the current society is ready to answer various challenges.
this event made it possible to transfer the domestic satellite on the national broadcasting network.
we are among the countries with economies in transition, but we have no direct access to the sea, which means that investment is difficult to attract, "said K. Pocket.
a. Kulduisenov shared detailed thoughts on equipping the regional courts with an audio-video recording system for trials, the electronic service "trial room," and the information system "arbitration."
a project on the production of paper products for sanitary and hygienic purposes with the participation of Turkish ipekkagit investors will be implemented in the project of the capital-new city.
many structural reforms were carried out in Anka. many structural reforms were carried out in the agrarian and industrial complex .
this record is another achievement of an army athlete.
the sovereignty of our State has been officially recognized by more than 120 States of the world.
In accordance with the economic reforms approved by Yelbasa N. Nazarbayev, I think that early elections are the right decision, because new people appear in the lower house of parliament who implement this order. due to the economic reforms , outlined by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , i think that snap elections in the majilis is a right decision , because the lower chamber of the parliament will have new , enterprising people with fresh ideas for implementation of these tasks .
It was also decided to transfer 45-50 apartments to children from low-income families and children raised in an orphanage.
For example, young people are trained at the best universities in the world, schools and hospitals have been built.
I am sure that in the future you will effectively fulfill the tasks assigned to you. i am confident that you will continue to successfully solve the difficult tasks .
active project work is underway.
N.Nazarbayev noted that the role of Kazakhstan is beginning to appear on the transit territory.
In addition, "precinct voters must submit voter lists 15 days before the election.
this is particularly true for the electricity sector and energy efficiency growth.
foreign ambassadors expressed interest in expanding contacts on a wide range of issues, including in the financial, oil and gas, food, auxiliary and other fields.
Also, a children's prototyped center will be opened in the Turkisib region as part of the 3D copying and printing technology of Almatyenergoservice LLP.
the memorandum provides for continuing vocational education, a dual system of training, research and the employment of specialists.
Kazakhstan got the opportunity to enter the world market, and in order for European investors to come here, it is necessary to provide an optimal business center, that is, all conditions in Kazakhstan should be good and convenient during their work, "he said.
thus, the Islamic Republic of Iran became the first state among the Middle Eastern countries to establish all the necessary international legal framework for effective cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the two countries.
We were the first to agree and communicate with our colleagues about our participation in the Russian EXPO-2017. russia was one of the first countries expressed the desire to participate in expo-2017 .
Among them are kum, the European space agency, the Japanese space agency.
3,335 deputies of maslikhats of all levels are elected to local authorities, of which 550 are elected to the regional, 625 to the city and 2160 to the district maslikhats.
During the meeting, he noted the importance of the qualitative implementation of 5 institutional reforms approved by the President of Nazarbayev.
the diplomat emphasized that there are no outstanding issues between the two countries.
In turn, the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications - expressed interest in further strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and Serbia.
Note that the enterprise produces products on the principle of "one window," accompanied by design development, access to the consumer.
if they invest the amount, then we will develop the metro system in the future, "said B. Baibek.
but the possibilities of developing trade and economic relations are unlimited.
The stability of Kazakhstan's development is a trend achieved as a result of the head of state's balanced, balanced, far-sighted policy.
thus, they discussed issues related to the protection of the rights of problematic property, disputes and administrative settlement, as well as the benefits of pre-trial protection and extrajudicial forms.
we will make every effort to reveal this topic.
Also, a fattening complex for 3,000 heads has been opened in the Merken district, built on the basis of the New Zealand project of Agrostan LLP together with Malaysian entrepreneurs.
and the memory of mass protests by young people in December 1986 in Kazakhstan.
The payment base of refinancing in the national bank is very high, oil prices are low.
in addition, the adopted rules create conditions for the use of the geodetic network of the state satellite in organizing counteraction to the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
To date, work is underway on the maintenance of these 1237 km of roads from the Kazakhavtodor RGP, which includes 5 zpp (dsp) and 11 dsp (dsp), "the speaker said.
The event was organized by the Department of Agrarian Policy, "the statement said.
Despite the message and statement in the government, in this case Kazakhstan has a large role in the parliament meeting.
manufacturing increased by 0.4%.
the firm is trying to keep the minimum price.
I congratulate all Kyzylorda residents on Independence Day. i congratulate all people celebrating new homes on the eve of the independence day .
Recall, on March 20, Kazakhstan held elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and deputies of maslikhats of all levels.
In addition, employees of the "capital of the green building" and contracting organizations clean parks, flower beds, cut trees, clean and remove garbage.
We flew to Kazakhstan with the invitation of the Chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan to the early elections of the Majilis. we have arrived in kazakhstan for extraordinary elections at the invitation of chairman of the cec kuandyk turgankulov .
Prime Minister Karim Massimov visited Yerevan to participate in the meeting of the Eurasian Intergovernmental Council.
This year has been full of high-level and high-level visits, bringing bilateral relations to a new stage of strategic partnership. this year has been full of mutual visits at the highest levels , thanks to which the bilateral relations have entered a new stage of strategic partnership .
we plan that on election day, people from more than 300 participating countries will take part in the mission, now short-term observers from the CIS are coming, "he said.
I can say that the elections, indeed, were calm, successful and successful.
famous statesman.
Council members endorsed the provision on the modalities and modalities for the application of a single system of tariff advantages of the common eo, which would expand the conditions for trade with developing and less developed countries.
the certificate is a quality sign for a Chinese tourist.
As the examination of international experience shows, in many foreign countries the trial periods are long-term.
Nevertheless, the activity of the population throughout the day is very high, "he said.
In addition, the capital has a communal market "shapagat," where food is sold at low prices.
and Kazakhstan itself in an era of crisis.
EXPO-2017 will be the main point of development of the country.
The project of the plant was built in the field of refining of precious stones in accordance with the best world practice.
In 2015, egg exports amounted to 2.4 million US dollars or 2.9 thousand tons.
this is a time of mutual understanding and mercy, concern for loved ones and sincere attention to people in need of help.
The head of the region noted the importance of the international forum held today.
According to him, the company plans to create a new type of rolling stock - an individual part of the wagon platform.
Note that this control system works at the stations zhanaaul, ekibastuz, tobol, iron ore.
The Minister noted that this model will reduce the conclusion from 2 to 25 days and divide the subsoil into sections that are 2 km.
Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan are characterized by tolerance to other countries, the construction of a low-cultural society.
Royal Global and Regional Policy.
party nur Otan - 82.15%
However, we have not cut jobs.
In accordance with what is happening in the world, trade with Uzbekistan decreased by 13.9%.
Therefore, I wish candidates for deputies of the Majilis and members of our party good luck in the elections, "the head of state said.
as part of the events of the Tauride Palace, a meeting of the committee on parliamentary cooperation between the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Council of the Federation of Russia was held.
In their opinion, this is not a decorative body, it is a manifestation of democracy, "the expert said.
Of course, it should be borne in mind that Kazakhstan's independence is only 25 years old.
since childhood, I dreamed of becoming an astronaut, flying into space, seeing outer space, and my dream came true. as a child i had always dreamed of becoming an astronaut , the space - and my dream came true .
deloitte, as a large international firm, plays an educational role in global financial markets such as London and New York.
The Iranian president noted that Kazakhstan has been a friendly country since independence.
In my view, nothing is more important today than the task of peace and security without nuclear weapons. in my opinion , today there is no more urgent task than the nuclear-free peace and security .
we discussed how preparations for the elections are going, on October 9 parliamentary elections will be held in Lithuania.	we congratulate our colleagues on the fact that the voters ' turnout broke the record ,  - the head of the central election commission of lithuania added .
symbolically, we began to reform the public service on the day of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the first legislative act - the presidential decree, which has the force of the law "On public service in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
the individual is concerned about the loss of unity.
Now Kazakhstan is going through much better times, "he said.
The economist also advised not to consider Expo solely for the purpose of forming an image. "
The signing of the agreement is scheduled for the end of the year.
Our people, who have witnessed entire eras, have been on a centuries-old and difficult road, "the head of state said.
this is not only a textbook, but also a teaching and methodological complex: a basic textbook, a book for a teacher, didactic material, a vocabulary dictionary and a letter book.
the main support will be aimed at protecting minority investors. the focus is on the protection of minority investors .
an additional 66 people were employed in the utility farm (in cafe-12, gas booster-18, guard-36).
Every year, participants in the charity fair grow. every time the number of participants of the christmas fair is increased .
next week, a meeting of the heads of state of the Eeo will be held in the capital, "said K. Maxim.
at a meeting in the Malaysian government building, a. Zhoshybayev discussed topical issues of cooperation between the two countries in trade, investment and scientific spheres, including in the field of green technologies and attracting Malaysian tourists to expo 2017, as well as the possibility of wide participation of Malaysian companies in the international specialized exhibition.
Following the results of the working trip, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies.
As a result, a system of auditing state projects and programs was introduced, a special agency for managing large projects was created, the press service of the academy said.
the country's multinational family consists of small families.
In addition, during his stay in Grozny, N.Rmekaev held talks with the acting head of the Chechen republic, Ramzan Kadyrov, and Secretary of the Security Council of the Russian Federation Nikolai Patrushev.
but the representative of the company-general contractor Irtyshgsestroy LLP refused.
I support the decision of the head of state to hold early elections in three directions. i fully support the decision to hold early elections .
As a multi-thousandth state, Kazakhstan is an example for the world to establish peaceful relations between various ethnos and religions, "said Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill.
in the second section, a dialogue of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan with potential investors is expected.
it is necessary to renew a member of the deputy corps in order to train ordinary citizens in new economic conditions.
The action is important for providing social assistance in villages and districts, cities and regions, "the head of state said.
Today, he invited participants to familiarize themselves with the topics of this media forum.
production greenhouse - a large agricultural project aimed at growing vegetables in closed ground in Kazakhstan.
During the discussion of the work plan, Deputy Chairman of the Majilis of Parliament Vladimir Bozhko proposed dividing 14 regions and cities of the capital, Almaty into 9 kha deputies.
According to the lawyer, for Kazakhstan, as well as for the Shu member states, the trade and economic dimension of organizations is promising and important.
the Government has adopted the necessary laws and regulations, introduced a career model of public service based on the principles of meritocracy, implemented the transition to a three-tier justice system, began the work of an international council at the supreme court, and strengthened qualification requirements for judges.
the need for social life lies in tolerance, pluralism, cosmopolitanism, globalism.
According to the Secretary General, Malaysia is successfully implementing new technologies in the field of energy-efficient construction and processing of household and industrial waste, the development of green cars, including public transport.
Chairman of the managing committee of the regional hub of the capital Alikhan Baimenov spoke about the contribution of Kazakhstan to international partnership in improving the public service, including the activities of the hub to promote sustainable development goals.
According to the head of the fund, it is planned to search for specialized financial investors with experience in the banking sector for Turstroysberbank.
In general, the meetings at the UN allowed to discuss the participation of international structures in the implementation of both the foreign policy initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan and large-scale programs for the development of the state.
There is also a fault that the department responsible for solving the problem, "said the head of the region.
The main goal of the law is to improve intellectual property rights, that is, we recognize the international experience of the Aidu countries and want to introduce this experience into the legislation, "said E. Karpykov.
Kazakhstan space visit "modified the model of Earth remote sensing satellites kazeosat-1 and kazeosat-2 during operation in orbit.
arms and human trafficking, drug trafficking, terrorism, illegal migration, environmental disasters.
Kazakhstan is in 25th place in terms of monitoring investor protection indicators, "the head of the department said.
During the visit, it is planned to meet the president with H.Rkhan, spiritual leader A. Khameney, as well as representatives of Iranian holdings and companies.
Thus, to participate in the expo 2017, more than 100 volunteers aged 17 to 24 years from the Aktobe region will be sent to the capital.
During the meeting, issues such as effective and new use of agricultural land, simplification of procedures for replacing land use goals were discussed in detail.
The Ministry is working with the National Olympic Committee, various sports federations and other interested bodies on the planned preparation of athletes for the Olympic Games, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
That is, there are a lot of women in the country who are engaged in business, "he said.
in my opinion, this is a very sensible decision. in my opinion , it is a very timely decision , because we need to continue reforming .
In addition, the Governor's Office of the region can make a decision on the issue of granting land to foreigners only by agreement with the central authorized body, "said Yerlan Bazilzhanov.
Currently, participants of the Great Patriotic War receive an average of 106 thousand tenge every month, taking into account pensions and benefits, "said Duissenova.
symphonic music, arias and famous operas of Kazakh classical composers will be presented at the concert, Kazakh, Russian, Ukrainian, Bashkir and other folk songs will be performed.
G. Isimbayeva thanked the Latvian side for supporting our candidacy for the post of permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, as well as for the right to host the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Recall that the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 will be held from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
everything interesting happens at home.
these projects have already provided work for 72 thousand people.
Buudb creates all conditions for the implementation of reform.
the second direction is on trade and economic cooperation of the PRC.
And I think that some of them are ready for further service, "said Colonel Amangeldy Ibraev, head of the military department of the Kazakh Humanitarian Law University.
Italians are ready to create innovative projects in the food industry, as well as create startups, look for funds for interesting projects and help in developing business plans, selecting projects.
the company raised plans for oil and gas production.
The Kazakh side reported that in July of this year the container train "nomad express" was organized on the Sino-Kazakh-Azerbaijani route.
Under an agreement concluded in December 2015 with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Erdb, without the participation of the government, can provide funds to our domestic banks only on the basis of corporate guarantees of the fund.
Almaty region is one of the leading regions to support small and medium-sized businesses. almaty region is among the leaders of support of small and medium-sized businesses .
this model fully complies with the modern standards of the judicial system and reduces the time taken to hear cases before the courts.
if a new composition is adopted, it can be created from younger, more complete ideological citizens.
98 deputies were elected by the people, 9 deputies - from kha, a total of 107 deputy seats in the majilis.
I look at Nursultan Nazarbayev's speech in Washington. i consider the manifesto " the world . the xxi century " of the president of kazakhstan sounded in washington , as a message to the world .
The meeting was attended by the deputy head of the ecu/diakb polin maria lemos mission, members of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as ecu/diakb specialists on election and law issues.
the success of all our reforms depends on it.
currently a global event - sporting events: the World Cup, Olympic Games.
Photo from the site inform.kz
Recall that in the capital, as part of the official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Spanish kingdom, jose manuel garcia-margallo to Kazakhstan, a Kazakh-Spanish business forum is held with the participation of Spanish and Kazakh entrepreneurs.
he also noted that the public council took part in many events of various levels.
at the forum, it is planned to discuss topical issues of cooperation between countries located near the historical landmark that determines the trajectory of development of the entire region in the future.
It is very important that the international forum of kumys-2015 takes place at the Kazakh Agricultural University, where the basis of education is laid.
special attention was paid to the international initiatives of Kazakhstan.
More than 1.3 billion tenge of investments were attracted, the number of new jobs will reach 11,500.
conference participants got acquainted with the prospects of mutually beneficial orientation of various integration initiatives and infrastructure development programs in Eurasia, including the economic belt of the silk road and the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
The head of state did this to turn the republic into a prosperous state and take an important role in Eurasian geopolitics, "he said.
- This year during the period of grain planting there was not enough funding, research was not carried out.
the general contractor of Alfa-north LLP began construction of the hostel in November last year.
EXPO-2017 is the largest construction on the Asian continent. expo-2017 - is the largest project in the asian continent .
in addition, there will be a significant impact on improving Kazakhstan's investment climate, "B. Nelson said.
between the short-term recession and the fact that it does not stimulate specific structural reforms in the countries concerned.
in the sections of Akmola, Pavlodar, Almaty, Aktobe branches of the road, the Agadir machinized branch of the road is involved.
According to the expert, based on internal factors, five institutional reforms of the head of state should be noted first of all.
as a result of processing of information contained in civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, 2016. The number of births in January-February amounted to 67.2 (in January-February 2015 - 63.5) thousand people, which is 2015. 5.8% more than in January-February.	as a result of analysis , in january-february 2016 the birth rate amounted to 67.2 thousand ( in 2015 - 63.5 thousand ) , which is 5.8 % more than in 2015 .	0,89
He noted that, despite the difficult international situation, this can be achieved.	as m. balgabay explained , the committee set goals to promote domestic producers to enter the international markets , and to attract investments .	0,89
under the agreement, the World Bank will ensure that the privileges, immunities, facilities and conditions granted to it are not abused.	also , the property and assets of the world bank cannot be requested , confiscated , expropriated ; the world bank archives shall be inviolable .	0,89
The main tool for the development of the production sector of the region is the implementation of the state program of industrial innovative development.
these indicators were achieved thanks to Almaty, Zhambyl, Aktobe regions, cities of the capital and Almaty. at the end of january this year , the assets have been legalized for 588 billion tenge .
Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan are working together to improve the safety of nuclear materials and reduce the use of highly enriched uranium.
among them, the company "abest engineering," providing snowfall services, responsible for the development of international sports stadiums and Olympic facilities, pgl management - companies leading business processes in ski complexes.
in the tourism sector, we began to actively work on the coast of the Alakol and Balkhash lakes. in the sphere of tourism , we have begun actively working on the shores of balkhash and alakol lakes .
In addition to the bilateral meeting, a briefing was held on emergency situations in Tajikistan and with the plenipotentiary ambassador of Kazakhstan Agibay Smagulov and the leaders of Kazkommertsbank.
we need to develop a new policy document on gender policy. we need to develop a new gender policy document .
this is not only a policy issue, but also an economic and investment attractiveness. this is not just a matter of policy , it becomes economically attractive .
As the Georgian expert noted, this will affect the appearance of the reporting state.
now it is necessary to direct production companies to process products and expand their composition. now it is necessary to make large industrial enterprises process the products , expand its product range .
accordingly, the volume of products increased by 1.6 billion tenge compared to the same period last year.
the unique life path of a shocked valikhanov is an example of civic courage, full of adventure.	he wrote the books  in the footsteps of chokan " ( 1977 ) , " the fate of chokan " ( 1987 ) , " chokan " ( 2009 ) .
According to the results of the vote, according to 20:00 pm, 7 million 500 thousand voters exercised their constitutional right.	according to the reports received from the regional election commissions and from astana and almaty , out of 9 million 810 thousand 920 voters , included in the lists , 7 million 564 thousand 281 people have received the ballots .	0,89
According to him, the purpose of this program is to increase competitiveness in sectors of the economy and improve the quality of life of the population.	according to her , the aim of this program is to increase the competitiveness of the economic sectors and improve the quality of life of the population .	0,89
extremism of violence is gaining momentum in society, the threat to our security is not only this, it can affect fundamental values ​ ​ and proposals, "he said.
Information on all measures taken and other activities of the national bank. information on the measures and activities of the national bank will be regularly delivered to the public financial institutions , government agencies .
six years ago, opening a university, I said that Kazakhstan has a center of prestigious education.
During this time, many events were organized, including at the republican level.
e. Nazarbaeva examined work of college in educational institution, examined preparation of an office, library, the gym, gym, a house, technical office, department of training of cooks, waiters, engineers and electricians, administrative assistants.
He also noted that in the context of the unstable economic situation in the world, the government and local executive bodies are implementing measures to diversify the economy and maintain the standard of living of Kazakhstanis.
It should be noted that the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the main pipeline" explicitly prohibits the construction of any facilities that are not related to the master's pipeline.
now the whole world is interested in our continent.
Recall, on March 20, 2016, early elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held.
the proposal aimed at the renunciation of nuclear weapons by mankind is supported by the world community.
the average age of candidates is 59 years.
the decision made here affects the whole world.
The Head of State also noted the importance of the consolidation of Kazakhstan's society in order to adequately counter crisis phenomena in the current situation.
despite economic risks, in general, nothing, we will continue to implement measures of social support for the population.
The center will allow young people to master new specialties, take retraining courses and improve their qualifications, "he said.
The delegation of Almaty met with Philippe Meunier, Vice President of the Vergne-Ron region - Alpes.
In addition, during the meeting, the parties agreed on mutual cooperation in the field of agriculture.
women are the foundation of the family and society. the woman is the foundation of the family and society .
the new Kazakhstani patriotism is the basis of the victory of a multinational and confessional society. new kazakhstan 's patriotism is the basis for success of our multinational and multi-confessional society .
now the military are moving to their new homes.
- your products are traded only in Petropavlovsk?
This will allow employing about 60 thousand people, including through the implementation of about a thousand infrastructure projects, to create 18 thousand jobs, the head of state said.
And in 2017-2019, about 200 thousand jobs will be created, including all projects.
we must seize the historic opportunity to exploit the effective and real path of world economic development.
dormitories will also be built for public sector workers, as well as in the field of culture.
and once again added that this situation could affect Kazakhstan.
the document should clearly set out three main principles.
An important area in the development of military cooperation between Kazakhstan and Pakistan is military education.
According to the results of registration in eastern Kazakhstan, 984.3 thousand hectares of unused agricultural land were identified.
In order to fulfill the instructions of the head of state and implement the state program of industrial and innovative development, we are implementing this project. attracting investors and the development of public-private partnership - is one of the main orders given by the head of the state .
That is, by presidential decree on March 20 of this year, elections of deputies of the Majilis and deputies of maslikhats of all levels will be held, "he said.
member countries of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation can join forces and make a great contribution to food security. the countries - participants of the organization of islamic cooperation ( oic ) will be able to make an enormous contribution to the food security together .
According to him, Polish culture and achievements will be presented at the exhibition, as well as close ties between the Polish and Kazakhstani people.
at the first level were issues of diversifying the future economy based on high technologies, consolidating foreign investment, improving efficiency and quality of activity, "the head of the department said.
This year, 14 schools with 4030 seats were commissioned in the region.
the entire world anti-doping organization checks not only Olympians, but also Paralympians.
the holding was created with the aim of promoting the development and diversification of the economy, attracting investments, developing clusters and improving the corporate governance system in its subsidiaries.
The Secretary of the CEC of the Republic of Azerbaijan noted that this is not the first time Kazakhstan holds an election contest.
now these countries are not very attractive to Western companies.
they must play sports, "said the head of the region.
Therefore, the purpose of the congress is to increase the socio-social potential, increase the public meaning of charity, "said the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also at the event, issues of solving problematic issues in the field of technical regulation and metrology and their early identification were considered.
According to the expert, the annual message of the President of Kazakhstan awaits people with great enthusiasm.
As the head of state noted, these services are not easy.
international observers came to the country to work.
In total, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan plans to hold more than 30 meetings with representatives of foreign governments, as well as representatives of major international companies, including transnational ones.
We invite fans of acapela music performed by the theater choir and the wonderful game of musicians who fell from the fingers of the Astana Opera chamber orchestra to spend this evening together, "said the Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chief choirmaster.
I think that in the future the celebration of this holiday will increase.
international elections have an expanded status at the global level and have great results in organizing electoral processes.
The World Trade Organization primarily contributes to the turnover of goods in Kazakhstan, but its development necessarily needs high-quality products. the world trade organization is an opportunity for the promotion of kazakhstan 's products , but we need have high-quality products .
According to the industrialization map, 120 new facilities were put into operation in 2015, 10 thousand permanent jobs were created.
The activities of the organization will be determined during the first session, "said the Vice Minister.
it is a symbol of wealth, justice and breadth.
because each social payment is not only an additional burden on the budget, it is an additional burden on Kazakhstani citizens.	but at the same time , as the president said , every social payment - is an extra burden to the budget .	0,89
intensifying the development of private energy service companies, encouraging them to provide a range of energy saving services.	it is important to boost development of private energy service companies , to enable them to supply a package of energy conservation services .	0,89
as part of this support, financial support for projects and the development of partner plans will be implemented.	this support means the financial support for the projects , development of business - plans , provision of marketing services .	0,89
This means that women's political activity is increasing, "said Lssuleimenova.
The organization was founded in 1997 on the basis of "democratic initiatives" vital voices "following the results of the 4th UN World Conference in Beijing at the initiative of the first lady, Hillary Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright.
It should be noted that today in Almaty 244 joint ventures and 1332 Chinese enterprises working with capital are registered, of which 69 joint ventures and 172 foreign enterprises.
Recall that the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that "peace. Twenty-first Century "at the IV Nuclear Security Summit in Washington.
The situation is difficult not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the EAEU countries.
support for small and medium businesses, basic sectors of the economy
This year Kazakhstan celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.
p. Vongsuvon "Kazakhstan and Thailand have few ties with the trade, economic, innovative and better technological perspective.
For the db pair, it is a great honor to be part of the strategic development process, "he said.
The 31st meeting of the Standing Committee of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (ou) on Economic and Trade Cooperation (Comsec) was chaired by Turkish President Recep Erdogan and the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (iu).
I also note that today it was decided to start negotiations with the Republic of Serbia on the coordination of the trade regime in the EAEU countries, T. Sargsyan said.
active participation of Kazakh deputies in the international inter-parliamentary community.
we must therefore address the situation in this area.
accordingly, in order to obtain housing through the "own house" program, it is necessary to accumulate 50% of the amount of the chosen apartment.
Currently, Mangistau enterprises of the food, textile, chemical, metallurgical industries are replenishing the number of customers, as well as the production of building materials, the use and processing of doors.
Speaking at the opening ceremony of the exhibition, the president of the association of the Singapore National Tourism Agency noted that Devinsky ochre is a promising tourist destination for Singaporeans.
Among the lecturers is the director of the European School of Radiologists, professor Nicholas Gortsoyannis, president of the Association of Russian Radiologists, professor Valentin Sinitsin, president of the Association of Radiologists of Kazakhstan, professor Rosa Rakhimzhanova and others.
we, the ethnocultural association of our country, support the upcoming elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, one should not forget that they create jobs and pay taxes.
A nationwide charity caravan event is held during 2016.
As a result, in 2015, 2.5 million hectares of land were voluntarily returned, including 400 thousand hectares of arable land and 1.8 million hectares of pasture land, "said A. Mamytbekov.
This is not the first time our district hospital has taken such a large-scale republican action. it 's not the first campaign in our district that .
to control the movement of this product.
our countries have common views on integration issues, similar positions in international politics.
I sincerely congratulate you on the Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan - December 16!
together with the University of Pittsburgh, we developed a smart polymer.
Women have been my loyal supporters over the years of independence.
the project implemented an advanced design process solution.
At the end of the visit, the head of government sent through the Lianyungan the first container train bound for the city of Duisburg (Germany) through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, etc.
Recall that in the capital, in connection with the opening of the first session of the VI convocation of the Majilis, a joint meeting of the houses of parliament began.
we are happy generations living in the open air of an independent country! today we are happy to live in an independent and peaceful country .
The Russian delegation met with the Mayor of the capital Adilbek Jaksybekov.
98 nominations for environmental contributions.
Also, the leadership of the Ministry of Investment and Development will hold a number of meetings with forum participants and representatives of foreign ministries within the framework of the air.
production thermal energy amounted to 13371.8 thousand gcal.
The exposition includes a banknote with a face value of 10,000 tenge, recognized as the best banknote of 2006.
a. Peche welcomed the signing of the Kazakh-European agreement and expressed confidence that this document will bring bilateral cooperation to a fundamentally new level in all important areas of relations between Kazakhstan and the EU.
Due to prices and market pressures, enterprises postpone investment programs, making efforts to increase production and labor productivity.
President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev expressed great confidence to all Kazakhstanis at the solemn meeting dedicated to the Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the capital.
Russia has adopted more than 1000 legislative and regulatory legal acts affecting the topic of terrorism. " Umakhanov.
In addition, when the plant is fully commissioned, 350-400 new permanent jobs will be created.
I want to remind you that the government changed after the presidential election last year if you want to know my personal opinion.	the president has reminded that the government of kazakhstan was changed last year after the presidential elections .	0,90
In 2016, as part of the state program "Nұrly zhol," more than 100 thousand people will be involved in the implementation of road projects.
The conference was attended by heads of diplomats, heads of the CIS Executive Committee, representatives of the CIS courts, the EAEU, couples, deputies and state bodies of the Republic of Belarus.
The deputy head of the Central Election Commission noted that 65 polling stations have been created at the representative offices of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 51 foreign countries, 25 polling stations in Asian countries, 4 in southern and northern America, 1 in Africa, 20 in Europe, 15 in the CIS. "
the creative team will take part in charity events in a nursing home, in the center of motherhood and childhood, at the central sites of the city, "he said.
Starting January 1, 2016, Kazakhstan will live in a new legal institutional environment. the new composition of the parliament starts to work in particularly difficult conditions .
Kazakhstan's significant contribution to resolving issues related to the agreement on the Iranian nuclear program was also noted.
2.3 million services were provided through the egov mobile application, "the minister said.
spring-field work is currently underway in southern, eastern and western Kazakhstanis.
because these industries are well developed in our region compared to other regions, countries.
In principle, this project is aimed at improving the domestic criminal justice system.
According to A. Mashkevich, Kazakhstan is an important player in the global metal market.
To date, the Ministry, together with the Republican Chamber, has taken measures to increase the number of private bailiffs and ensure their activity in all regions of the region. at present , the ministry together with the republican chamber have adopted measures to increase the number of private bailiffs and ensure coverage of their services to all areas of the region .
another financing tool is the forward purchase of wheat and barley through another subsidiary of Kazagro - the "food corps" uk. "
I am sure that in order for Kazakhstan to become a strong and prosperous country in the 21st century, your efforts, cooperation, perseverance and talents are enough, "the head of state said.
may the festival bring joy and good to every house, every family! "- said in a congratulation.
efficient storage of deposits in tenge, high interest rate.
in my opinion, the new composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a new impetus in the legislative process.
It is now that our athletes are preparing to show the best result.
for Kazakhstani factories, this is an opportunity to show their products and bring them to the world level.
The procedure for selecting winners should be clear to all interested parties. " yakupbaeva.
in particular, the budget and the strategic plan of the Ministry and the status of its implementation were discussed.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has not lost its values ​ ​ and has gathered the best qualities.
this is the only plant in Kazakhstan for the repair of armored vehicles and the manufacture of conversion equipment based on military and military engineering equipment.
such work has been carried out with us before.	this work was done in the past also .	0,90
In order to fruitfully implement the Nazarbayev-Merkel initiative to introduce the German model of vocational education in Kazakhstan, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the German agricultural academy Doyla-Ninburg Gmbh and the national agrarian educational and scientific center of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the dual education system in the agrarian sector.
we are a unique society, because we are different from others in development and stabilization. unlike many countries , kazakhstan has strategic plans defining our path .
Compared to the same period last year, 56.1% of housing was rented in the capital.
all necessary basic components have been created, including databases, a state and an interdepartmental gateway. Sarsen.
The amount of the state social allowance for disability, depending on its cause and group (established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget" for the corresponding financial year); in the event of loss of the breadwinner - the number and cost of living of persons in custody; depending on age - only the subsistence minimum.
for example, in our region, many organizations are moving from an approved pay system to a differentiated pay system.
the success of actions in modern warfare is due to the quality and full-fledged organization of operational and combat support of troops with weapons, ammunition, military equipment and other logistical means that facilitate the rapid deployment of coalition groups of troops, "said Major General Ruslan Alimov.
Special attention should be paid to the work of the CEC members - all of them were well prepared and prepared, "he added.
reforming education, health and social protection will create conditions for improving the quality of human potential.
the most important aspect of the anti-crisis measures was connected with the transition of the national currency to the free rate of tenge.
The Parliamentary State Secretary highly appreciated the socio-economic reform in Kazakhstan and developed a number of practical proposals to increase cooperation on the implementation of the above-mentioned bilateral projects.
The Knesset speaker expressed condolences to the Kazakh people for supporting Jews in various historical periods.
The Foreign Ministry needs to use all the resources of foreign institutions of Kazakhstan to fulfill these tasks.
charity events for children and pensioners "Caravan of Mercy," "Asar" were also held.
we met with a number of journalists and observer partners.
the development of peace will take place within the framework of fierce competition between world and regional centers of power.
As in previous years, the list of Ashts participating in the program is approved by the coordinating councils at the akimats of the regions.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the basis for the renewal of the world economy will be scientific achievements and innovations.
In addition, a special department of dentistry was involved for pregnant women.
hate is the founder and chairman of the board of directors of the alibaba group, one of the world's largest online retailers.
During the meeting, guests got acquainted with potential investment facilities and got acquainted with the conditions for the implementation of joint projects.
The transport and logistics structure will become the main instrument for implementing economic ties between regional countries on the world market as an important leader in the export of goods. the transport and logistics structure will be the main instrument for implementing the economic ties between the regions and the main conductor of the export of goods to the world markets and will enhance the realization of our transit potential .
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed hope for the successful implementation of the initiatives expressed during the summit.
Wishing women good health, great happiness, a long life and great success, the head of state noted that the role and place of women in the development of our country is filmed.
Zhambyl region has great opportunities for further development of trade relations with the Polish republic.
the manifesto received the status of an official document of the General Assembly and the Security Council.
we actively invested stock exchanges in Istanbul, Moscow, so, of course, we became interested in supporting ahko. we invested actively in the stock exchanges in istanbul , moscow and therefore naturally we are interested in supporting the aifc .
During the conversation, views were exchanged on the possibilities of implementing joint projects in various areas of cooperation.
Donakov also noted that foreign specialists receive salaries from a special fund.
The conference was attended by well-known experts in the field of military science and leading experts from think tanks.
we are gathered here to answer all the questions and suggestions of the residents.	we should be ready to monitor the social situation and identify all problems to solve ,  - deputy head of the construction department yerzhas aituganov .
attacks even an entire state.
alexey dmitrievich kalaichi to the post of head of the department of the law enforcement system of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Today Mayor of Almaty b. The theme of the international tourist exhibition "kitf-2016," in which baibek took part, was devoted to the prospects for the development of the tourism industry and the location of Almaty in the international arena.
The sides discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation, stressing that strengthening relations, conducting visits of the heads of the two countries and mutual meetings.
In this regard, the plant is fully ready for the production of new commodity products.
According to Governor's Office of Akmola region, Svobodny LLP of Sandyktau region is one of the strongest agricultural producers of the region.
In addition, more than 90% of respondents believe that early elections contribute to the consolidation of the population at a difficult stage of development. "
- Today Kazakhstan is the only country in the post-Soviet space that has signed an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation with the European Union.
Thus, according to the secretariat of the Expo 2017 Commissioner, Saudi Arabia became the 83rd country to officially confirm its participation in Expo 2017.
every year, cadets of military universities of Kazakhstan undergo internships abroad, gain experience and improve their qualifications.
Nevertheless, there are unresolved issues, "said Bulat palymbetov.
In conclusion, S. Karchevsky expressed gratitude to those who supported their compatriots in the past period, and those who currently support the preservation and development of their national traditions, language and culture.
Our direct task is aimed at taking operational steps, strengthening the domestic economy in conditions of global economic tension, presenting national views and closing jobs, saving the population of Kazakhstan from poor life.
Speaking about the tasks of both sides within the framework of the law on public-private partnership, A. Bikeeva noted that the state takes over land plots and compensation.
The secretariat of the Council of Turkic-speaking countries has drawn up a draft roadmap for the marketing strategy of a single tourist product "New Silk Road."
To date, the allocated funds have been fully used in accordance with the work done, "said the mayor of the city.
this means that if the investor comes, he will be able to return his investments, "he said.
It should be noted that of the new immigrants - 5 families of minor orphans, 2 large families, 3 families - from the category of socially vulnerable persons, employees of budget organizations and civil servants.
Kazakh enterprises held profitable negotiations with enterprises of the Sverdlovsk region, following which a contract was signed between Kaskormashzavod and Pervouralsk Pipe Plant.
In addition, during the conference, Kazakhstani and Italian entrepreneurs discussed issues of cooperation in the v2v format.
in addition, weapons and military equipment of the ground forces and naval forces, yeast systems and equipment, special-purpose equipment and equipment, it-technologies, communication systems and equipment, rear and technical equipment will be presented.
this will contribute to the further development of the country's economy, "he concluded.
According to the representative of Kazenergy, the oil and gas industry is now at the intersection of forecasts and opinions.
it will become a regional hub in the fields of Islamic finance, private banking and reinsurance.
domestic and international manufacturers of medicines and medical products, distributors and representatives engaged in the retail trade of medicines, assumed social responsibility for maintaining prices for 105 items at the level of April 1, 2016.
senators also discussed the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on space activities."
2,500 schools are connected to the Internet, 1,500 schools are additionally allocated funds.
the bust "Battle of Berlin" is installed at the entrance to the hall of a three-deck panorama.
According to him, the development of modern Kazakhstan is closely connected with the vision of the country's leader.
in my opinion, the situation is good today, so such lands should be bought, and 50% of the cadastral value with installments for 10 years.
As the Chairman of the Board of Kazkentent joint-stock company noted, currently the importance of Internet resources is growing every day, as they promptly inform the company about what is happening in the country and the world.
Following the discussion, Karim Massimov instructed the relevant state bodies to continue this work.
therefore, we need an updated deputy corps, "said B. Samiev.
It should be noted that today the factions of the party "Nұr Otan," "Khpk" and "Akjol" initiated the dissolution of 5 convocations of the Majilis and the holding of parliamentary elections.
we closed the Semipalatinsk training ground for the first time, and we know how hard it is for people who lived in this region. kazakhstan was the first to close the semipalatinsk test site , and we know how difficult it was .
we are pleased to meet new citizens of Kazakhstan and hope that they will become worthy citizens and contribute to the further development of independent Kazakhstan, "said the Secretary of State.
According to a December study, the employment rate in September 2015 increased from 57 to 54%.	according to z. shaukenova , the case study , conducted in october 2015 , showed that 54 % of the respondents support a system in which the winning party would form the government .	0,90
customs and tariff regulation is one of the main areas of foreign economic activity and performs a number of functions for regulation, support, control of the state.	the customs tariff regulation is one of the main methods of the foreign trade activities and realizes a number of priority tasks of the state to regulate , promote and control the foreign trade .	0,90
Departments of the situation hold quarterly round tables and seminars for young people and married citizens. "
this is a junior service company, which is often introduced to local small and medium-sized businesses.
The event was attended by Deputy Chairman - Head of the Secretariat - Tugzhanov Erals, Deputy Chairman of Kha, Deputy of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhumatai Aliyev, members of Kha, representatives of state institutions, ethnocultural associations and gardens, youth community, scientists and cultural figures.
During the briefing, the head of state noted that during his recent visit to Brussels, the Kazakh parliament ratified the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation with the European Union.
According to him, at the initiative of the head of state, the development of a private executive institute is a measure within the framework of the national plan "100 concrete steps" to implement 5 institutional reforms.
Yerbolat Dosayev noted that "during the years of independence, close cooperation with the Aidu countries allowed the Kazakh economy to rise to the 42nd position in the list of the most competitive countries in the world in accordance with the competitive global index of the world economic forum."
the city championship was first held in the capital last year.
The President of Kazakhstan was a friend of Afghanistan and an important partner in the restructuring of the country.
situation center consists of an information system of monitoring, analysis and visibility of important production and financial indicators of the national nuclear company, including all enterprises subordinate to the company.
The goal of the round table is to involve all interested parties in the discussion of ways to develop tourism and the current trend in Shymkent, as well as the search for new ideas to increase the attractiveness of the region for both Kazakhstanis and foreigners.
apartments 1-2-3-4-room, landscaped and partially equipped depending on the composition of families of military personnel.
Director of the Institute of World Economy and Politics at the fund S. Akimbekov noted the implementation of the task of developing an international analytical center in accordance with the best international standards.
That is, 663 thousand tons of melon, watermelons, 78 thousand tons of cabbage and cucumbers, tomatoes and other vegetable products were received.
But, as we all see, incomes around the world are declining, investments are complicated.
Already this year M. Kogamov had to take part in a number of international and republican large-scale events.
save money.
I think that today's bike path made a great contribution to this, "said B. Baibek.
it is time to clarify the goals for advancement. it is time to outline the objectives to move forward .
and I'm a singing and singing teacher.
In the implementation of this project, according to the 57th step of the National Plan, foreign investors are involved.
everything is at its level, goes well.
according to the managing director, various applications are integrated into the program.
today we saw that citizens of Kazakhstan come to polling stations and repay their civil debt.
but today it could be a ghost.
in the future, being a deputy, you can engage in creativity. at the moment i have become popular among people because of the movie .
To date, 5 projects have been launched, of which 571 are new. open.
it's true?
Increasing the dataset opens up new opportunities for the development of useful services and applications.
As the diplomat noted, today Kazakhstan has a number of achievements and is developing steadily.
if we do not do all this, then we will hope for world development.
During the two-day work, the participants discussed the proposals for the draft agreement, reviewed and completed the work of the commission.
Full cooperation has been established with the administration, "said the Zhukenbaev.
The European Commissioner also expressed confidence that the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation will further strengthen cooperation in the trade and investment direction.
On modern equipment, workers of Pipe Cement Company LLP will be able to develop their professional skills and create various things.
In accordance with the draft legislative work plan, the draft tax and customs code will be submitted to parliament in August.
Currently, together with "kgs" uk, "work is being discussed on the installation of a differential post on railway tracks.
The meeting was also attended by the deputy head of the ecu/diakb polin maria lemos mission, members of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as ecu/diakb specialists on election and law issues.
The company's products are currently consumed by the Kazakhstan electrolysis plant.
the early exhibits presented at the exhibition date back to the Bronze Age.
The head of state told millions of people that our unity will preserve only our attitude towards the state and independence. the head of state conveyed that the quality of our life depends on the independence .
By orders of the Head of State:
As a result, we entered the construction schedule, "he said.
its goal is to make the State inclusive, sustainable and balanced and to improve the well-being of citizens.
the family lives in Alma-Ata.
Do you like it?
therefore, Almaty residents are happy to travel in this mode of transport.
recently there has been a stabilization of the situation in the foreign exchange market. the currency situation in kazakhstan is stabilizing gradually .
Photo from the site nurotan.kz
presented the theme of the exhibition "The Power of the Future" and called for solving specific issues of veto participation by the Vietnamese and interrupting their introduction of advanced renewable energy technologies.
In addition, the plant will be employed for 1.5 people.
The Ambassador of France highly appreciated the role of the Kazakh prosecutor's office in conducting the country's international legal policy and confirmed his interest in strengthening cooperation in the legal sphere.
We also noticed that all conditions are being created for citizens of Kazakhstan abroad.
If the adaptation plan is not implemented, the lead may extend the probationary period for another 3 months.
- As you know, now there is a process of nomination of candidates for maslikhats of all levels.
As part of the implementation of the 25th step, an international council was created at the Supreme Court.
Kazakhstan's dream should be realized in the same way as the prosperity of Kazakhstan and the renewal of Russia.
They also expressed interest in our country and interest in joint economic activities within the framework of the commodity partnership, the report said.
We see that Kazakhstan still has a lot to do to fulfill its tasks to conduct democratic elections within the ecu, "he said.
At the end of the meeting, the parties reaffirmed their readiness for close and constructive cooperation in the coming period.
Since the creation of the Coordinating Committee, work has been carried out on the development of an effective tariff policy, the introduction of a unified cargo transportation technology into production, the formation of joint integrated logistic nomad express products, the dispatch of the first container train, and the creation of a trans-Caspian international transport concern. over the years of the existence of this structure , since february 2014 considerable work on building an effective tariff policy , the introduction of a single technology transportation of goods , the establishment of joint integrated logistics product nomad express , the first transit container train running was carried out , the trans-caspian international transport consortium was set up .
As part of the implementation of the 35-36 steps of the National Plan, 100 concrete steps in the framework of the introduction of a new mechanism for transferring agricultural land to private property were adopted by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 2, 2015 "On Amending and Supplementing the Land Code," which enters into force on July 1, 2016.
in addition, e. Idrissov noted that at this stage, the main vector of efforts of Shu member states should be to ensure long-term trade and economic cooperation by extracting and processing in the organization's space, creating transit transport and social infrastructure.
at the opening ceremony, the attorneys general of Cuba, Venezuela, Bolivia and Ecuador spoke.
During the briefing, a member of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan t. "Given that election observation contributes to strengthening national and international confidence in the elections, Kazakhstan, fulfilling its duties, opened the institution of observers in the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament and maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scheduled for March 20, 2016," said Okhlopkova.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin noted that bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia are based on trust, traditional friendship and good neighborliness, as now in difficult conditions.
of these, 1962 patients were transported, 441 were consulted, 136 operations were carried out.
subjects of the construction industry calculate estimates of new facilities using a resource method as part of the design and estimate documentation.
In October 2015, as part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020," the installation of engineering communications began on the site: laying electrical networks, providing a thermal and water network, and creating accessible construction routes.
According to him, he noted that on the day of voting he will be at a number of polling stations in the capital.
on the one hand, it resembled a mortal world.
the main advantage is the mark-up on the entire product does not exceed 3-7%.
at the top is the number "2016," denoting the year of minting.
As the Deputy Chairman of the KHA noted, the assembly not only maintains stability in the world, but also goes from Kazakhstan to a deep framework.
we plan to introduce per capita funding for schools according to the principles of the university. we plan to introduce the principle of per capita financing of schools using the experience of higher education institutions .
friendly relations have developed between Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan.
I think that Kazakhstanis will be interested in Austria.
The construction of two dairy farms for 50 and 100 heads of milking cows will also be completed.
many crimes were committed under false religious slogans and, unfortunately, were committed not only by poor countries, but also in the richest state, "said Mr.
The new composition of the lower house will begin to reform the tasks with whole ideas and whole forces, "said the head of state.
we will ensure transparency and fairness of parliamentary elections, "said D. Baideldinov.
they are Russia, India, Iran and so on, they are ready to support and help, "he said.
On behalf of the bureau, the Senate is preparing for parliamentary hearings on the topic "improving the competitiveness of the domestic agricultural sector in the eurozone and the world - legislative regulation and its practical implementation."
Training can be obtained as part of the program and take an internship at non-alternative enterprises abroad.
For this, in the next 20 years, the regional leadership provides for the allocation of $109 billion in the development of solar energy infrastructure.
for example, a member of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, doctor of historical sciences Oleg Kolobov, commenting on this program, noted that the document is epoch-making.
for example, I liked the fabric of clothes in this store, the quality of sewing.
precinct posts are the first place of work where they work with the population, society.
During the three-day competitions, Akmola athletes won three medals: three gold, two silver, one bronze and two "gold" in featherweight combat.
elections - the act of starting the formation of a competitive environment in all areas. the elections are a symbolic act of the beginning of formation of the competitive environment in all spheres .
"Dialogue between religious leaders and politicians for peace and development."
During the meeting with the General Director of the worldskillsrussia Foundation, the possibilities of partnership in training and development of the system of vocational education in connection with the transition of the country to a system of free vocational education were discussed.
In addition, 412 women's business projects have been funded by the Asian Development Bank since 2011.
for this purpose, target indicators will be adopted annually for the government, ministers, akims and, thus, up to each structural unit of the state body.
the need to adopt a single tax and customs code, the code "On subsoil and subsoil users," amend legislation on electricity, competition, as well as improve legislation regarding the further transfer of state duties to the competitive environment.
the travel schedule for the following year is still being refined. next year we scheduled important events such as a nuclear security summit in washington ( usa ) .
75,000 m2 of glass, 45,000 m2 of hardened glass are produced per year.
The most important thing is that the participation of every Kazakhstani who has the right to vote in the elections is very important, "said A. Tsimdars.
He also noted that innovative technologies for detecting and treating diseases are being actively introduced in the East Kazakhstan region.
all this gives not only savings, but also good managerial efficiency, the business must work without interruption from production accuracy - this is what we achieve as part of the transformation, "said the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna.
The group plan consists of five main areas. the plan consists of five main areas .
this work was dedicated to the globally recognized founder of the new independent Kazakhstan.
The representative office of the center of international programs "Bolashak" in Moscow organized a round table with the assistance of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia.
The head of the national company reported to the head of state on the measures taken to diversify production, in particular, preparations for the construction of a wood production plant.
According to the Russian Embassy in Kazakhstan, the parties discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation and multilateral relations, as well as cooperation within the framework of the EAEU and the CIS.
Following the exchange of views, the parties identified further steps to develop mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation and confirmed confidence in maintaining relations of a traditional friendly nature.
various trainings, seminars, patriotic actions, excursions, creative evening programs.
also, according to him, ratification of the protocol will lead to adverse economic consequences and a positive impact on the economic development of the region.
in the message, all this is clearly indicated, "he said. Selteans.
the project will be an example for the Chinese business community to develop logistics and some indicators. the project will work out the logistics and become a kind of indicator and an example for the chinese business community .
In his speech, the Minister instructed the Governor's Office to begin the construction of infrastructure that meets international standards.
the Kazakh delegation was headed by the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerbolat Dossayev.
the main changes in the charter of the National Olympic Committee relate to the order of its membership and the creation of governing bodies. this decision is caused by the change of the national legislation and amendments to the olympic charter .
during the congress, the tasks were achieved.
Therefore, early elections are on the list of events, "said Madina Nurgalieva.
Garik Bernetsian noted that the company is first engaged in the construction of a kindergarten and will continue this work in the future.
I want people to come to parliament who will express a new idea, "said the marat of the shibuts.
we relied on our experience of monitoring different countries in various parliamentary elections.
Following the talks at the business forum in Tehran, an agreement was reached on the supply of transformers, supplies of oil and communication equipment, fertilizers, hygroscopic serial vacuum lamps, needles and food products, "said A. Zherzhanov.
12 projects are at the design stage, 5 are developing permits, "said Zhangaskin.
thirdly, it is now necessary to actively develop export niches in world and regional markets.
We believe that the Tashkent summit will make a historical contribution to the expansion of our organization, "said E. Dyrissov.
if, for objective reasons, we cannot solve this problem, then we need to clarify the situation and respond in a timely manner, "said the mayor of the capital.
in the Zhalagash district, such an object will be built next year.
the coming years will be a time of global testing. our president has announced the 20th in a row address to the nation .
EXPO-2017 is designed to attract large investors to Kazakhstan.
- He passed all stages of the prosecutor's service, worked in three regions, the Ministry of Justice, was a member of parliament.
Today, military education is actively developing. nowadays the military education keeps pace with the times .
The meeting was attended by members of the council elected by the results of the competition, in particular, prominent public figures, representatives of the scientific and legal environment, the media, non-governmental organizations and civil society.
According to him, countries selected foreign investments by the number of donors.
Construction work is 100% complete, 85% of installation units have been installed.
our representatives participate in the working groups of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I want to tell the members of the commission that when choosing a person who has an advisory vote, I ask you to pay special attention to observing the norms of the law, "he said.
I think the elections are held in a timely manner. i believe that the decision to hold elections is timely .
athletes of Kazakhstan won the first place at the Asian Championship in the team competition and the second place at the World Championships.
During the meeting, the parties noted the similarity between Kazakhstan and Algeria on major international and regional issues, "the report said.
the parties also discussed parliamentary election companies held in Kazakhstan and upcoming in Russia.
M. Medina in this regard noted the great potential of the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
As a result, work on 580 km of roads was completed, 1,116 km were repaired.
Recall that last year Kazakhstani servicemen became the absolute winners of the contest "Commonwealth Warrior."
Karim Massimov also presented to the IMF members the idea of ​ ​ the head of state N. Nazarbayev on the creation of an Astana international financial center.
currently, within the framework of the state's agrarian policy, as well as in connection with the increased attention of the whole society to food security, agricultural companies in Kazakhstan are of great interest to investors. currently , within the framework of state 's agricultural policy , as well as paying more attention by the whole society to food safety , agricultural companies in kazakhstan are of great interest to investors .
first of all, at the external level, the president instructed to economize the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has increased gas production 5.5 times. during the period of independence , kazakhstan has increased its gas production by more than 5.5 times .
military blocs must therefore confront the global coalition of States for peace, stability, confidence and security under the flag.
armored vehicles, modernized t-72a tanks, armored repair evacuation vehicles, an aerobatic simulator of the es-145 complex, body armor of Kazakhstan production and other equipment, the Ministry of Defense said.
The Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan confirmed the intention of our country as a new member of the WTO to actively participate in the work of the organization, noting that this step serves the interests of not only the Republic of Kazakhstan, but also the entire multilateral trading system.
If the register of civil servants is the same for all spheres, now it will be approved separately and in agreement with our ministry by the competent authority of the sectoral ministry.
As a consumer, first of all, we can understand business entities, citizens who use state services and state organizations, "said the director of the company.
it was a response to our global trials.
The message of the head of state surprised me. address of the head of state produced a deep impression on me .
According to A. Ospanov, early elections to the Majilis of the parliament will strengthen the internal stability of Kazakhstan.
we invite the Bulgarian business group to take an active part in the implementation of joint ways. we invite the business community of bulgaria to take an active part in implementation of joint projects .
if the practice is successful, these textbooks will be introduced next September.
it is planned that participants in this region will be able not only to show their achievements in the field of energy, but also to exchange views and experiences in promoting technologies, strategies and projects.
In his speech, the Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, nurymbetov, noted the need to carefully discuss issues of migrants and refugees in connection with the economic crisis and new geopolitical trends.
at this meeting, we discussed in detail all aspects of the upcoming electoral campaign and gave a detailed explanation of the electoral law to all participants in the electoral process.
and under the project "Construction of fap and polyclinics in 350," a total of 57 health facilities were built (polyclinic 1, outpatient clinic 39, fap 17).
Also, within the framework of the summit, it is planned to hold talks with the heads of delegations, as well as meet with representatives of the Turkish business community.
National e-mail increases the list of online services and encourages their use.
The participants of the meeting discussed issues arising under contracts of international projects in the field of intellectual property:
The sides discussed a wide range of issues in the field of improving monetary policy, carrying out structural reforms, as well as medium-term prospects for the economic development of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan added that then the state developed and implemented two anti-crisis plans - it was a great experience that showed how to overcome economic difficulties.
the successful completion of the Nanowlugar programme confirms the active role of the Senate in the implementation of non-proliferation policy and foreign policy. "
According to the Russian political scientist, Kazakhstan during its chairmanship will give a new impetus to the relations between such international organizations as eeo and shu.
According to the rector of Nazarbayev University, if the five-year plan follows, then we all know that the sectors will be even larger and further located.
In turn, the Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Svetlana Zhakupova familiarized the meeting participants with the draft of the third stage of the plan, designed for 2016-2018.
in Kazakhstan, I would like to surpass the prospects of the region for subsoil use. i would like to note the high prospects of the territory of kazakhstan for subsoil use .
It is necessary that the land remains with agricultural producers, "he said.
Following the visit, the Expo 2017 Commissioner gave an interview to the news program of the largest and prestigious Malaysian television channel astro awani.
we create a single register of guide guides that meet all the requirements of the program.
swift action was now needed in the face of an economic and spiritual crisis. now , when we experience not only economic but also the spiritual crisis , we should take timely measures .
This year marks 24 years since the acquisition of sovereignty.
Now I invite all Kazakhstanis to see the exhibition.
I want to say that the moratorium, which the head of state announced yesterday, is an international experience. as for the moratorium announced yesterday by the head of state , i want to say that this is international experience .
firstly, the general agreement of the member countries of the organization on trade, economic and technical cooperation should be consistently implemented and free trade zones should be created.
To sum up, I was convinced that the Kazakhstani people fully support the strategy of the president and the government of the country on the development of the state.
In turn, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan can become good neighbours, have similarities among themselves on the basis of international experience, solve internal and national situations, "said azim Kholmakhmatov.
A. Solovyova noted that independence day is a direct connection with our first president.
S. In his speech, Chakrabarti noted that the signed memorandum of understanding between the National Bank of Kazakhstan and the EBRD City Yukey provided support for the creation of a regulatory framework for akhko, the creation of a strategic one and so on.
according to him, the main locomotive of the message is the influence of the global crisis and the prevention of it by Kazakhstan.
we are making every effort to create favorable investment conditions in the region, "the head of the region said.
The head of the Central Election Commission emphasized that during the agitation period, political parties and candidates are allowed to organize and hold rallies, marches, demonstrations and other election events.
this was in a difficult situation associated with the growth of social presence, when Kazakhstan reached such an extent as to achieve high economic development and become an example.
Timzhaksylykov noted that within the framework of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts on Reducing Permits and Simplifying Permitting Procedures," amendments were adopted aimed at improving Kazakhstan's position in the World Bank's doing business ranking.
we invited the Changjians to Zhambyl region.
this is a free contribution to business development.
according to him, sabantoy is an international holiday that is part of the heritage of UNESCO.
- Will Kazakhstan and Russia be able to revise the agreements within the framework of the customs union in connection with the slowdown of the economy of the two countries?
It should be noted that the project of Retaila-a LLP "Production of bread and confectionery products" implemented as part of the State Program for Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019 is included in the map of support for regional entrepreneurship, "the statement said.
As of November 1 of this year, 3 projects worth 1.6 billion tenge will be implemented.
to date, 97 million hectares of agricultural land are on long-term leases and only 1.2% are privately owned. today , about 97.4 million hectares of agricultural land are in a long-term lease , and only 1.2 % of the land is privately owned .
According to the Foreign Ministry, the event was attended by representatives of the Foreign Ministry, associations of sappers, garden and diplomatic corps, as well as the chairmen of the UN special commission on Iraq, an outstanding Swedish diplomat rolf ekeus.
The organization of wholesale states - oil exporters needs to consider the possibility of stabilizing oil prices and think about benefiting without harming other countries, "said H. Karazai, recalling the sharp drop in oil prices.
It is planned that the head of state will take part in the September G-20 summit.
we started implementing the Plan of the Nation, which was published this spring, and we gladly organized its initiative for the 25th anniversary of independence. we started the national plan , it is symbolic that we start implementing on the eve of the 25th anniversary of independence .
the whole process has always been under control, and President Nursultan Nazarbayev also took part.
To date, labor productivity in the country has increased 1.6 times, "said N. Nazarbayev.
equipped with modern technologies and gaming equipment, high-quality devices.
here they learn to be friends, understand each other and live in society.
also as part of the strengthening of interfaith dialogue, it is planned to make feature films and documentaries about the "unknown years" of the prophet Jesus.
this is a necessity for strategic partners such as Kazakhstan and Russia.
In turn, Phil Hogan noted the broad prospects of cooperation in the field of agriculture and highly appreciated the dynamics of the development of dialogue between Kazakhstan and the EU.
construction of two meat processing plants will begin.
grain crops are planned to be sown by 15.2 million hectares.
In addition, Zhambyl region is ready to offer potential Polish investors investment projects in the agro-industrial complex, chemical industry, production of building materials, etc., requiring promising financing.
in addition, the new industrial base metals are oriented towards the following indicators, are an increase in labor productivity, stimulation of supply in the foreign market and exports. we create new production , increase productivity , and stimulate domestic demand and export .
The Ministry also plans to jointly develop a program of preferential lending to agricultural cooperatives "Kazagro."
Five institutional reforms are especially important in the current period, when the economy of Kazakhstan is heavily influenced by global economic difficulties.
ball textiles "produces 5,000,000 square meters. m of carpet and carpet products per year.
Our republic has been implementing measures to reduce the dependence of the economy on raw materials for six years, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Following the meeting, the parties expressed their intention to continue constructive discussion of a set of issues in the field of agriculture, the implementation of joint investment projects in motherhood.
the program should be rich and interesting, everyone should be aware of their solidarity with this matter. the program should be rich and interesting , so that everyone would fell a sense of ownership .
Kazakhstan can certainly become an important player in the overall nuclear energy system when placing a bank of low enriched uranium on the territory of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, we intend to come up with the idea of ​ ​ creating an international expert network on the basis of the Qi to study issues of counteraction, reference, terrorism and extremism, "said E. Karin.
the signed agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation was an important stage in strengthening development between Kazakhstan and the eu and proved that such relations are the beginning of a new stage.
today, the focus of the community is the study of the state language. today , the focus of the union is on the state language .
we see the desire of the head of state for peace and harmony. we see that the president stresses his desire for peace , the desire for a peaceful resolution of all problems .
energy of the future helps attract the best energy-saving technologies in the world.
a total of 5.5 thousand people were trained.
deputies of the upper chamber answered journalists' questions in detail, and also explained to representatives of foreign media the issues of the message of the head of state N. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
for the first time, the Toyota concern, which produces cars in Kazakhstan, comes to us.
we are considering a lot of issues, many of which are in the technical sphere, but an important solution is the signing of a memorandum of understanding. we considered a lot of questions , some of them are mainly technical , but the important decision was made to sign a memorandum of cooperation with the un ctc ( counter-terrorism committee ) .
The meeting was attended by deputy akim of the region and representatives of the NPP, the department reported.
manufacturing increased by 0.3%.
Next week in Davos, as part of the World Economic Forum with the participation of international experts and economists, we will hold a round table with the World Bank, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
According to him, special courses on the transfer of the construction industry to the resource sector are currently organized.
holding early elections at this stage will allow earlier to solve socio-economic issues, "the report said.
Trade and economic ties are an important part of cooperation between our countries. trade and economic cooperation has always been one of the priority directions .
Kazakhstan supports the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east.
according to the report, Kazakhstan is one of the countries with a high level of development of humanity and in 2015 took 56th place in this indicator (14 points higher than in 2014).
while staying in Berlin. Vasilenko held talks with the representative of Germany on cooperation with the countries of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia Andreas on foot, co-chairman of the business council for Kazakh-German strategic cooperation Peter Tils and the regional director of the Eastern Economic Committee of Germany Martin Hofmann.
I believe that these elections are very necessary for the development of the country. i believe these elections are necessary .
shrinking markets in programming, slowing economic growth in partner countries, and domestic and external barriers to reducing global consumption.
commemorative silver coins "taga" with a face value of 100 tenge from a series of coins of magic symbols are made in accordance with the agreement on the issue and sale of coins between the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the joint-stock company "skarbiec koronny sa" and the republican state enterprise on the right of economic management "Kazakhstan Shadow Palace of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
According to the results of the competition in the nomination "art installation," the best was the eight-year-old ahmet cabdolla, a representative of the school "nur horde."
an agreement was reached on the labeling of products of the watch industry made of precious metals, the report said.
individual zones began the construction of housing. some regions have already started the construction of housing for the future release of these securities .
The most effective way to manage change is to innovate in local areas and adapt to these innovations, whether in politics or in the economy. the most effective way to manage change - is innovation and adaptation to these innovations in local areas , whether in politics or economics .
Zhambyl region supplies fresh fruits, canned vegetables, detergents, plastic mononite, ferrous metal products, bearings, motor vehicles for transporting goods, trailers and semi-trailers.
we tried to do everything quickly, because the decision had to be made quickly.
the breakthrough to the competition is wonderful. the mood is great .
The international anti-terrorism conference of religion will create a unique format dialogue between political and religious activities.
to date, 9,925 candidates have been registered for maslikhats, including 176 out of 3, "said L. Suleimenov.
mezzo-soprano - Honored Worker of Kazakhstan, Dina Hamzin and zapak butterfly walk.
Also at the end of November this year, the second congress of the charity event dedicated to the Day of the President of Kazakhstan will be held.
According to the head of state, the policy on industrial-innovation policy and infrastructure in the country is being implemented very successfully, since in good years the country has raised funds for such a moment.
r.zhoshybayev and babramson invited to the upcoming Astana Economic Forum, within the framework of which a panel session "Innovations and Technologies EXPO-2017" will be organized.
first of all, the development of expert activities and an experienced expert in parliament and technical assistance in their activities, "he said.
In his speech, he noted that the business council is an opportunity to develop a consolidated position and improve ethical legislation in the areas of its regulation.
elections are important at a new stage in the country's development, which means a return of voter confidence.
after the implementation of such important areas as local government, regional innovations, regional tourism, local and regional governance, employment.
dialogue with the Yeeks should be built. dialogue with the eeu is necessary .
In addition, on March 20, 2016, deputies of maslikhats of all levels
Governor of Pavlodar region also reported to the Head of State on two large enterprises for heating of petroleum coke and production of agrochemical products, which are planned to be launched by the end of the year.
Issues of the future use of sports complexes and infrastructure are already being resolved, and business is actively involved in this matter.
He also noted that the European Union is counting on the peacekeeping influence of Kazakhstan, which is participating in important regional processes.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, 130 products of economic entities 130 at the fair amounted to 100 tons: meat products - 14 tons, beef - 6.5 tons, conin - 4.11 tons, pork - 2 tons, lamb - 1 ton, poultry meat - 0.6 tons, dairy products - 4.3 tons, prime and first grade flour - 15 tons, sausages - 2.12 tons, fish - 0.55 tons, cereals and pasta - 6 tons, eggs - 144 thousand pieces, sugar - 10 tons, potatoes - 8.5 tons, vegetables - 17 tons, sunflower oil - 20 tons.
the parties agreed to expand cooperation in the field of education and science, create conditions for the exchange of specialists and students.
the first three steps of the national plan are aimed at creating an improvement in the quality of the state apparatus. the first three steps of the national plan are aimed to improve the quality of the state apparatus .
the creation of a Eurasian engineering center is aimed at creating an innovative technical and technological base in order to ensure the transition of the industry of member states to new technological traditions, "the report said.
there was also a personal meeting with the Deputy Minister of Economics and Research, Science of Austria Bernadet Grlinger and the Commissariat of the Austrian National Section of Expo 2017.
familiarized the participants with the situation in the railway industry of Kazakhstan, the measures used in the country for transport and logistics infrastructure.
According to him, one of the areas that will raise the country's economy to a new level is the development of it-technologies and its introduction in various industries.
aspa is the largest and very popular American professional association in terms of public administration, "said Alikhan Baimenov, chairman of the managing committee of the regional hub in the civil service.
According to him, the European Union sent 5.5 million euros for the implementation of this project.
These funds will be used to develop priority sectors of the country's socio-economic development, increase economic growth and economic activity of the government, "Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov said at a plenary session of the Majilis of Parliament.
Kazakhstan and the United States of America declare the further strengthening of the security of facilities, stockpile management systems, storage facilities and training for the security forces for the transportation of materials, cybersecurity and cooperation to strengthen the global architecture for the detection of nuclear materials.
Currently, the designers of Huashin Cement Corporation are developing a project for the construction of a cement plant.
The Governor's Office received 3,156 applications for 32 billion tenge.
as a representative of the Iranian people, I want to say that our compatriots have great respect for Nursultan Nazarbayev.
as you can see, in a short period of time they adopted many laws, and also considered the labor code, "said E. Smyshlyaeva.
According to him, the sector of heavy industry, transport, manufacturing is an investment.
these countries import goods and services worth more than $3.5 trillion annually.
Currently, 79 facilities are under construction, "he said.
this is the only project of this nature in the western region.
There are also medium-sized complex jobs.
The goal of the decade is the development of a system of moral and spiritual education of children and young people, the improvement of their civic culture skills.
there are several reasons, the first is a change in the economic and geopolitical situation.
The implementation of this plan will allow not only to present a design plan in pharmacies, but also to introduce a format of self-service goods for health care and care, to expand the range of medical and children's cosmetics for the population, "said Musin.
The transition to a green economy will contribute to Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
The company was established in October 2004. the company started in 1995 .
Obstacles and obstacles must be removed until they are separated from others. i would like to express gratitude to the speakers and experts for the visit and speeches , experience and knowledge .
Take an example!
Taking into account the instructions of the head of state, the Dutch status, which occupies the 4th place in terms of direct investment in the Kazakh economy, during the meeting the parties discussed the role of foreign ministries in attracting investments and deepening trade and economic cooperation, the possibility of mutual transfer of diplomats to international economic organizations, leading centers of "smart people" and other structures.
The Committee on Social and Cultural Development and Science is appointed by the main committee on the draft laws "On employment of the population," "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on employment of the population."
the device itself cannot work without systems, so it is important to develop and implement an operational system that can be combined with similar emergency call systems and ensure the safety of people, goods, transport and infrastructure at the borders of the member states of the customs union, "said the first deputy general director - head of the technical secretariat of Kazstin Group of Companies.
As a result of caring for Kazakhstanis, we survived and stood firmly on our feet, "said R.
the destruction of stockpiles of weapons and nuclear materials has led to security and stability in our region.	eliminating stockpiles of nuclear weapons and materials has made our region safer and more stable .	0,91
According to the regional akimats, an additional 2.6 billion tenge was allocated on the eve of the victory in the Second World War.
As for revenues in the educational sphere, the deputy noted that over the past three years patrons have invested 40 billion tenge in the educational sphere.
In turn, school chiefs assess as a qualitative selection that children set a goal and are waiting for good results, "said the head of the department, deputy head of the Department of Education and Science, Colonel Begim Nurmakhanov.
in comparison with other commodity markets there is stability and prospects in this area. compared with other commodity markets the stability and prospects for the growth in this industry is observed .
they will pave the way for solving a set of historical problems that will change Kazakhstan, its economy, the state and society, "the head of state said.
The head of state noted the importance of developing three scientific and technological clusters in the capital - a cluster of high technologies, biomedicine and geology.
The new composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan should be responsible for the current structure of society. the new composition of the majilis must meet today 's community requirements .
About 100 countries and 10 international organizations can participate in it.
The developers of the land code of Kazakhstan have mastered the world experience and learned what the problem of land is for the whole world. first of all , the developers of the amendments to the land code of kazakhstan studied the world experience .
According to him, the public service should meet the needs of the country and meet modern requirements.
the world is now experiencing various conflicts on a religious and ethnic basis.
Parliamentary elections are now necessary. at the moment , the parliamentary elections are necessary .
Finland is also working closely with Kazakhstan as a technology partner and investor for technology transfer.
subsoil users, backbone companies, mining companies and chemical companies were invited to the open dialogue.
Challenges facing Kazakhstan in the coming decade:
Kazakhstan is the second country in Europe to sign a strategic partnership agreement.
In his speech, the head of state repeatedly spoke about the need and importance of improving the efficiency of public services. the head of state has repeatedly stressed the importance and the need to improve the efficiency of the public service delivery .
The memorandum of understanding between the EEC government and Singapore provides for the development of all industries within the competence of the EAEU.
accountability of state bodies to the population was also ensured, the main issues were discussed together with the townspeople, a meeting of the public council was held.
these are five components: "open data", "open", "open budget", "open dialogue" and "assessment of efficiency of activity of public authorities".
this will help stimulate low-income families to receive new social assistance, "said Duissenova.
The current law on payments and remittances regulates standards on procedures for accepting payments and remittances.
this concept should not be subject to religious, national and gender inequalities in education. this convention provides the prevention of discrimination in education regardless of race , nationality , gender , religious affiliation .
maslikhats are actively nominated for deputies. a period of nomination of the deputies in the maslikhats undergoes .
all these measures are aimed at improving the welfare of the country.
4 candidates were previously elected to the legislative bodies of the country, another 4 candidates were in various state positions and awarded high state awards, he said.
of course, this is a lot of weight, "he said.
people are kind and you can find friends, "said Muller.
The Kazakh diplomat said that the state has carried out a lot of work to support the Kazakh diaspora.
In this regard, we will now, together with employers, introduce a national qualification system.
In order for the elections to be held openly and fairly, all conditions have been created, "he said.
During the meeting, topical global and regional issues were touched upon, including on the situation in Afghanistan, the situation in Syria, the threat of international terrorism and religious extremism.
The creation of Ahko will have a number of priorities: to contribute to the development of the country's economy, reduce dependence on natural resources, and increase the potential of local specialists.
According to A.Mamin, as a result of the implementation of the modernization program of the car fleet in the country, 17.5 billion tenge is provided for the support of car builders.
Within the framework of the Spartakiad, championships are held in five sports: kettlebell, arm wrestling, presidential all-around (winter three), cross-country skiing (patrol race) and chess.
The head of state in this important message pays special attention to the activities of legislative bodies at all levels to implement anti-crisis programs in order to overcome difficulties, "said Dina Yeshtaeva.
we awakened this service from our children.
election campaigns attract the world community.
organizational activities, round tables, round table topics raise all the issues and topics raised at the ha session.
Kazakhstan is one of the first States in the world to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site and renounce weapons of mass destruction and demonstrate to the whole world the absence of hostile actions and the readiness for cooperation and dialogue.
- Here Diakb has a mandate to control elections of all levels.
The naval forces as a whole pay special attention to the military-industrial complex of Kazakhstan. naval forces pay great attention to the development of the military and industrial complex of kazakhstan as a whole .
instability and conflicts in the Middle East, North and Central African region have led to a large flow of refugees.
today a number of Italian producers come to us - this is energy, equipment and types of the food sector. today , there is a number of italian manufacturers of products with high added value - energy , different types of equipment and food sector .
agreement. spiritual heritage, state symbols "June," "July" capital. Homeland. patriotism of the new Kazakhstan, knowledge of "August." science. intellectual nation family. culture, "Kazan" culture. creativity, "November" global dialogue. Kazakhstan-peacekeeper, history "in August." independence. security. "
improving the quality of public services to the population is an important anti-corruption aspect and increasing public confidence in the activities of state bodies, "the minister said.
to ensure long-term economic stability, as many business partnerships as possible must be involved. it is necessary to involve business partners as much as possible to achieve long-term economic stability .
results of the first five-year plan
Photo from the site kazpravda.kz
Recall that the first meeting of the State Commission for the 25th Anniversary of Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan was held in the capital.
During the meeting, Tokayev congratulated the representative of the Buudb on the 50th anniversary of this structure.
your graduates should not join the ranks of the unemployed. your students should not join the ranks of the unemployed .
During the conference, a number of issues were discussed, including areas for the development of Kazakh-Russian bilateral investment cooperation, the possibility of widely using successful experience within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), issues of intensifying economic relations between the regions of the two countries, as well as the possibility of implementing joint infrastructure projects.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of high-quality implementation of the main state programs, support for small and medium-sized businesses, as well as socially vulnerable segments of the population.
at the steam proposal of Kazakhstan, the development of cities and the connection of local points to various resources within the framework of the steam program - high-quality drinking water, developed infrastructure, education - the main indicator of the comfortable life of Kazakhstanis.
Today, 5 land users have submitted applications for leasing land, "said the akim of Karaganda region.
Therefore, an integral part of the national strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" is intended for the protection of motherhood and childhood.
such measures will increase the international popularity and investment attractiveness of Almaty, will strengthen the export potential of domestic enterprises.
we are ready to unite on this site with local colleagues.
According to the First Vice Minister, the expert potential amounted to 7.5 million tons.
Which of Kazakhstan's prescriptions applied to the problem differed from those of other countries?
in the near future, it is planned to begin work on the development of the upcoming production and technological process and refinement of the production plan.
Two hundred years ago, the president kum abraham lincoln said: "By evading responsibility today, you will not be able to avoid this tomorrow either."
mobile laboratories will be officially transferred to the Committee of Roads of the Republic of Kazakhstan, after which they will be transferred to the relevant "regional laboratories" (aktobe, atyrau, East Kazakhstan region, Zhambyl, Karaganda, Kyzylorda and Pavlodar regions).
on the pages of regional, district and city publications, information was printed on the regions of election commissions, their composition and territories, "said A. Umaraliev.
each side creates favorable conditions for investors of the other side on its territory, ensures attracting investments in them and protecting investments, "he said.
at the same time, the presidents decided to enter into force and implement the Free Trade Agreement between the Eurasian and Vietnamese socialist republics. at the same time the presidents took the decision necessary for implementation of the free trade agreement between the eaeu and the socialist republic of vietnam .
Bektanov murat caribaevich relieved of the post of commander of the regional command "east."
In particular, the organizers of expo-2017 will exchange experience with partners in promoting the themes of the exhibition, providing specialists and replenishing volunteer staff.
Within the framework of the gender equality strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main areas of the national commission include the economic, political movement of women, the protection of the health of a woman and her family and the prevention of violence against women.
the parties discussed issues of strengthening trade and economic ties, considered the sale of distribution, retail sales and the provision of services in the territory of these states after the sale of lada cars.
on this holiday we wish you good health, great success, strong spirit and well-being.
The week of art of Kazakhstan will continue with the organization of cultural events at the headquarters, permanent mission and consulate general of Kazakhstan in New York.
This year, we successfully concluded negotiations on accession to the World Trade Organization. today , kazakhstan has become a full-fledged member of the world trade organization .
Thanks to the policy of the head of state N.A. Nazarbayev, there is a strategy and a clear "plan of the nation" not only to counter the world crisis, but also to develop the country in the new global reality.
members of the commission will cooperate with international observation missions, the regional election commission, the election headquarters of candidates, representatives of gardens and representatives of the civil sector.
This year Kazakhstan has established constitutional principles of peace and harmony, integration of society.	every nationality has its good family tradition , and the council of the mothers in close liaison with the national commission for women works on it ,  the secretary of state of kazakhstan has said .
We produce 5500 breads and gingerbread products per day, "the entrepreneur added.
many radiators and fans control the air of the greenhouse.
Central Asia has its geographical and cultural proximity, as well as close to the asymmetric danger in the near east.
In adopting the joint statement at the fourth nuclear security summit, I am pleased that today the Obama administration of the President has reaffirmed Kazakhstan's non-proliferation commitments. i am pleased that today the obama administration reiterated the u.s. commitment to kazakhstan 's non-proliferation efforts through a joint statement on the occasion of the fourth nuclear security summit .
according to the new law, the competition for vacant posts in state bodies is held within the state body, among its employees.
The head of the region congratulated the intellectuals on the coming New Year, wished them dedication, fruitful work, creative power.
According to the head of sap in Kazakhstan, in 3-5 years the need of the company will grow in the republic - it will be the sphere of public administration.
The participants of the seminar were akims of various levels and deputy akims, deputies of maslikhat.
a provision has been introduced on the mandatory testing and marking of jewelry and other products, and the sale of jewelry and other products has been established.
Pope Francis wished Nursultan Nazarbayev and the entire Kazakh people happiness and well-being, noting that he asked the creator for good to our country.
the meeting was attended by John ria, member of the board of directors of locus solutions, and Kenneth Alibek, senior vice president of locus solutions.
5 candidates - members of political parties of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 553 - were absent from the party, another 492 did not indicate their belonging to the party.
As a result, in the region 30,673 mothers received gold, 41,260 mothers - silver.
Questions on access to government programs, microcredit, cooperative laws, and land issues for villagers.
the first phase of the reform has been completed.
It is also important to provide assistance and influence to those who have previously left the law and served their sentences for this.
we are talking primarily about the construction industry, consisting of several parts. in the construction process , we have the possibility to substitute import .
In this regard, and. Aronova noted that the commission is monitoring this issue.
the parties expressed gratitude for the friendly relations between the competent authorities of the two countries.
The President of Kazakhstan once again expressed his condolences to the Erdogan in connection with the terrorist act in Ankara in March this year.
he is known for his powerful technologies, innovations.
According to statistics, the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia over the past 10 years amounted to 268 million dollars, in 2015 it amounted to 16 million dollars.
I fully welcome the support of the President of Kazakhstan for the non-proliferation of Kazakhstan and call upon the Senate to ratify the Protocol to the Asian Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
its goal is to make the State inclusive, sustainable and balanced and to improve the well-being of citizens.
During the meeting, members of the working groups made a presentation on the current activities of the national commission.
This is a dry port, logistics and industrial zone, "said N. Rakhmetov.
Accession to the WTO sets concrete, practical goals for the Kazakh society and socio-economic structure, multi-level business, for the management of the management corps, "he said.
the share of internships at state-commissioned student enterprises in technical and vocational education organizations in 2015 is 100%, "said B. Kamkulov.
From September 10 of this year, an online cash desk will be opened throughout Kazakhstan.
in general, Kazakhstanis showed unity and integrity, as well as the desire to contribute to the development of the country.
According to the head of the RMM, he noted the main projects implemented by "symbols of independence of Kazakhstan."
It is worth noting that the signing of a preliminary agreement with Kazavtodor made it possible to work on the preparation of the necessary borrowing documentation.
the presentation of credentials will be a new stage in today's diplomatic career. today 's ceremony of presentation of credentials will become a new stage in your diplomatic career .
we are growing together with independent Kazakhstan, "the leader of the nation emphasized.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of expanding cooperation in the field of law enforcement and strengthening cross-border crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, arms trafficking and deterring all types of terrorism.
I think that the new meeting should include experienced people from the people, production.
The organization of the seminar is the aerospace committee of the Ministry for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Kazkosmos), the national company Kazakhstan Space Visit.
However, there are a lot of working professions, and so on is very relevant for rural youth, because today the agrarian sector needs professionals, "said S. Habdulin.
carmel is a transport company that serves tourists.
- Were the first foreign observers known?
The main task of these councils is to assist executive and competent authorities in working with citizens, involve citizens in solving problems, and prevent offenses.
a wealthy group of women gathered here. there are all business women .
this is 24 billion tenge less than last year, "he said.
the second direction is the organization of the activities of election commissions.
in Kazakhstan there are a lot of masters of their business.
Construction of the facility is planned to begin in mid-2016.
The Ulba plant, as you know, is a large detachment of our nuclear industry, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
I am sure that a friendly partnership between the enterprises of the Mangistau region and Germany in the field of logistics and supply of oil equipment will develop and will develop, "said the guide hertz.
I took the initiative to create a unified world system to counter terrorism and extremism at a meeting of the UN General Assembly, the president's address says.
Chairman of the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party Danial Akhmetov congratulated the children on the international children's day and wished them success in their studies.
the nomination of deputies of the majilis of parliament elected by party lists will be held until February 8, 2016, and the registration of party lists - until February 19.
for its implementation, it is necessary to develop agricultural production, increase the output of export-oriented, competitive products on the world market, increase labor productivity and ensure the country's food security.
Tugzhanov told foreign guests about the history of creation, constitutional status of kha and strengthening of inter-ethnic harmony.
In turn, the education departments of two neighboring regions reached an agreement on the implementation of projects on science, technical and vocational education, exchange of students and teachers.
dear Kazakhstanis, we have met the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan. dear people of kazakhstan , we celebrate the day of unity of people of kazakhstan .
prior to that, he worked as the general director of the business development fund.
The Senator informed about the adoption by Parliament, within the framework of the national plan, of a new Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law "On the Supreme Judicial Council," amendments to the constitutional law "On the Judicial System and the Status of Judges," the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Offenses.
at the same time, the work of the Assablea of the People of Kazakhstan was especially noted.
the national bank should ensure the implementation of effective monetary policy, maintaining the level of free exchange rate of tenge, preventing sharp fluctuations in the rate and continuing dedollarization. the national bank should ensure an effective monetary policy , while maintaining the level of free floating exchange rate , avoiding sharp exchange rate fluctuations and continuing with de-dollarisation .
Currently, the Ministry, together with the Geology and Subsoil Use Committee and Kazmunaigas, are conducting preliminary negotiations with potential project participants on various aspects.
The Mangistau Economic Council is coordinated by a public-private partnership centre.
According to N. Nazarbayev, as a system of equal opportunities, a new career model of the civil service was approved, a three-level system for selecting qualified specialists for the public service was introduced.
According to them, candidates are nominated from Astana, Zhambyl, Kyzylorda, Akmola regions.
I want to congratulate the entire Kazakh people on this holiday, wish bright heaven, happiness, success.
someone considers him a project for the "revival of the USSR."
information on the growing tourist attractiveness, visa and logistical advantages in Kazakhstan was presented to the guests.
Thus, for the development of housing construction, 19 residential buildings for 1,260 apartments will be commissioned in a short time.
how, in your opinion, was the interstate structure evaluated?
It should be noted that as part of the medical and social project of the Bi-Zhuldyzai corporate charity fund, more than 80 operations for children were carried out.
According to the registration procedure, the executive council consists of 8 members, Kazakhstan becomes a permanent representative.
it is a comprehensive document embedded in logic.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
President Nazarbayev's message "Peace. XXI century. "
The main basis of the program is youth and women.
today we are proud of their work and results.
In addition, the first brewery LLP is successfully developing in the region as part of the industrial map.
Preparation for the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017, 2017-2018th years of Kazakhstan. The UN application for non-permanent membership in the security council and information about the opening of a bank of low-enriched uranium in Kazakhstan aroused great public interest.
Holding elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels will allow Kazakhstanis to unite, he said.
and the ability and desire to fulfill the complex tasks of international scale facing the country, "he said. tajibayev.
moreover, the program does not provide for sectoral restrictions for districts, cities of the region.
this also covers the far and near margins.
Since the beginning of the year, we have been conducting memoranda to increase local content in the procurement of systemically important enterprises. from the beginning of the year we sign memoranda on increasing the local content in the procurement of the strategic enterprises .
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, today a rich program of events is planned.
With regard to general control, it is carried out by the electoral bodies, the committee of communication, informatization and information of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the prosecutor's office.
According to the document, the World Bank will have offices in Kazakhstan and equip them with employees to provide operational and administrative support services.
now it is enough to submit the relevant declaration and accompanying documents to the state revenue authorities for legalization of property located in Kazakhstan and duly executed.
this is a great historical event - the result of the fulfilled desires and hopes of many people.
- The main advantage of Kazakhstan's further development is close connection with fraternal countries.
at the meeting and in maslikhat, people are needed who with a new approach relate to the current situation. basically the majilis and maslikhats need new people with a new understanding of the current conditions .
these children have never forgotten the mercy and brotherhood of the Kazakh people.
Rusatom is a company for the development of atomic energy in the world.
if a transformation program had not been adopted, then last year it would have been difficult for us, "said E. Bakhmutov.
this project is aimed at providing heat to the areas in which residential buildings are being built, EXPO-2017 facilities and a new railway station.
"the newly formed plan for the development of the system of self-government; strengthening civil society institutions and introducing new forms of interaction with State bodies; support for the reforms carried out in the country by citizens, increasing civic activity of the population; strengthening the identity and unity of Kazakhstanis on the basis of civic prisms and values ​ ​ of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
For accelerated modernization of the experiment, knowledge, experience and technical capabilities are needed, "said B. Zhaksaliev.
it was summarized in the economic council created in Mangistau region.
In order to integrate Kazakhstan into international transport and communication flows, a project has been launched to create a multimedia "Eurasian transcontinental corridor."
we do not do any shows, because now the cost of each penny is high, "he said.
this should have a positive impact on Kazakh-German relations, "he said in his congratulations.
We hope that in the future, in addition to the Winter Universiade in Almaty, we will hold other events, "said a representative of the British Union of Universities and Colleges nil rogers.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin also reviewed the preparations for the upcoming meetings in Moscow within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organization.
The Russian Ambassador to Kazakhstan noted that the concert of the young Kazakh ballet coincided with the holiday.
this bank eliminates the need to find ways to enrich uranium and coincides with the rights of Magate Member States to produce, research, refine and use nuclear fuel on a peaceful path. "
The forum discussed important issues of international cooperation in countering trafficking in persons, corruption and money-laundering, crimes related to fraud and tax evasion, as well as the recovery of proceeds and assets derived from crime.	the forum discussed the important issues of international cooperation in combating crimes related to human traffic , corruption and money laundering , fraud and tax evasion , as well as returning of proceeds and assets obtained by illegal means .	0,92
The international conference on the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site will be held as part of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence.	the international conference , dedicated to the closing of the semipalatinsk nuclear test site , will be held under the auspices of the 25th anniversary of independence of kazakhstan .	0,92
During the meeting, various aspects of bilateral and multilateral political, trade, economic, cultural, humanistic, consular and others were discussed.
training is aimed at developing and improving professional skills of effective team management (hr-management), as well as communicative qualities.
As part of the forum in the capital, the chairman of the Senate met with the deputy of the Bundestag of Germany, an axel fisher, the Egyptian Minister for Mukhtar Time Affairs Friday and the president of the International Institute for Peace Terje Rhode Larsen.
The Kazakh diplomat spoke about the activities of Kazakhstan as the chairman of the eurozone countries, and also spoke in connection with the implementation of the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to deepen the economic ties of the union with third countries.
another instrument is direct lending to a subsidiary of Kazagro - Agrarian Credit Corporation on the collateral of a white (anka) edb.
we began to further study its composition.
trilingual educational program is in great demand.
One of the first among the CIS countries of Kazakhstan created a unique institution of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
they should not be influenced by a false, alien ideology, a radical group that is inclined to commit illegal, inhuman actions that we are currently having, "the President of Kazakhstan emphasized.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Additions to the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the Procedure for the Operation of 929 State Flight Test Centers of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation of January 20, 1995 was adopted.
you and I have great goals.
Photo from the site camonitor.com
all categories of the population got rid of money.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this holiday is a genuine national holiday as a symbol of stability, unity and harmony that triumph in the country.
The former Prime Minister of Israel also touched upon the development of the domestic agro-industrial complex.
location in the immediate vicinity of the state border helps to optimize the scheme of crossing the state border, simplify the procedure for crossing and increase security, "said the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, topical issues of sustainable development, gender equality and the empowerment of women and children, social and humanitarian progress were discussed.
now there are 4 rmk - a tson, a real estate center, a research and production land center, a state center for issuing pensions.
In order to implement automated greenhouse complexes included in the industrialization program, the work of the High Agrarian Union and Kazagromir LLP is being carried out.
The Commission on Cooperation will have a significant impact on the development of the upcoming integration processes and will allow effectively fulfilling its functions and tasks of the commission, "said the Minister for Customs Cooperation.
in addition, meat production.
Of course, we provide additional training in the production process.
According to the expert, in the Republic of Kazakhstan 2.5 million students are prepared annually for the school year.
Thus, the work will be considered according to its parameters, "said the director of the department.
Y. Ashchikbaev held a meeting with the leadership of a number of Cuban foreign ministries, during which President Nursultan Nazarbayev personally congratulated the Cuban president on his 85th anniversary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
he also spoke about the measures taken to ensure the rule of law, changes in national legislation.
this is a common Eurasian platform, on the basis of which the Kazakh Khanate was formed, where we celebrate the 550th anniversary.
all this rests on the tariff, "said E. Birtanov.
In addition, our company collaborates with financial centers in London, Dubai and Singapore.
However, if our plans for the near future are implemented, these indicators will be increased many times.
we are not limited to these stated measures.
Following the meeting, a number of memoranda were signed between the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and the government offices of the Kyrgyz Republic in the Chui, disputed and Issyk-Kul regions for the further development of bilateral cooperation.
the main step towards the future is the proper implementation of institutional development. the basis of a successful movement into the future is the proper institutional development .
In total, they implemented more than 150 projects worth about $6 billion and created more than 20 thousand jobs, "- said K. Pockets.
Preparations for the universiade in Alma-Ata are in full swing. preparations for the winter universiade in almaty are in full swing .
political, military, economic, information and other vital areas of activity of the member States of this organization.
such efforts will not only support domestic demand in the form of fiscal measures, but also strengthen the economic growth base against the backdrop of rising labor productivity, "he said.
eidu can demonstrate positive experience and give experience not only to Kazakhstanis in this area, but also to neighboring countries.
On the same day, a meeting was held with Armenian Foreign Minister Edward Nalbandian, during which bilateral consultations and the development of Kazakh-Armenian relations were discussed.
such centers are needed so that we can bring the quality of education of schoolchildren of our city to the foremost place in the republic, "said gabidullah rakhmatullaevich.
residents positively perceive information. the population perceives the information properly , approvingly .
The award ceremony was attended by the chairman of the commission on the partnership program "recommended by expo-2017" of Astana, deputy akim of Astana nurala aliyev, representatives of Astana Convention Bureau LLP, as well as heads of the capital's hotels and restaurants and other service enterprises.
important ideas of the president are implemented and work not only on paper, but also in real life. meaningful president 's ideas are not on paper , they are brought to life , they work .
this suggests that women are now active in entrepreneurship. "
delivery is carried out on a market basis, that is, the price is determined based on daily network prices, that is, we participate in tenders in the Russian Federation, competitiveness and price fluctuates in the amount of 5 tenge. the price is determined on the basis of daily prices , that is , we are engaged in trading in russia and absolutely competitive with access to the market .
the Russian expert notes that Kazakhstan creates various scenarios for changing the economic situation in the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the important role of the army in preventing and preventing modern military and terrorist threats.
this site is designed to launch the subscriber box in electronic form, deliver the necessary letters and notifications, documents among representatives of state bodies, business and the public.
on the other hand, ideologues and agitators of international terrorist groups, representatives of the criminal world, illegal migrants should not be allowed to enter Kazakhstan.
The head of the National Chamber instructed to conduct research on the production of the most relevant materials and equipment for the construction industry in Kazakhstan.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, Georgia has good experience.
Recall that in the capital, as part of the official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Spanish kingdom, jose manuel garcia-margallo to Kazakhstan, a Kazakh-Spanish business forum is held with the participation of Spanish and Kazakh entrepreneurs.
there is a company for sewing women's coats and there are shoe companies.	also , there are 44 medium and 40 large enterprises ,  the press service of the nce stated .
During the meeting, the interlocutors exchanged relevant information on the development of the judicial system of the two countries.
the international situation has also become more complicated. there are many threats and challenges in the world today .
service is provided free of charge for 2 working days.
The Dutch Prime Minister asked K. Tokayev about the current geopolitical situation in the world, the development of integration processes within the eurozone and the prospects for cooperation with the European Union.
Updates medium- and long-term policies in the government, the national bank.
in this regard, our company should be entrenched in the global value chain of production. that 's why our company has to integrate into the global value chain of production .
the Government and Parliament in this case need to work together and take decisions quickly.
a similar system of combat weapons is actually used in the ground forces of Kazakhstan.
I support the proposal to hold early elections to the Majilis of Parliament. i have a positive attitude towards the idea of the deputies to dissolve the majilis and hold snap elections .
this exhibition will have a positive impact on the development of the country without a doubt.
During the talks, priority issues of the development of Kazakh-Chinese cooperation in a number of industries were discussed in detail.
As a patriot of my country, I positively perceived the appeal of the head of state, I take part in the upcoming elections. as a citizen and patriot of the country , of course , i will respond to the call of our elbasy and take part in the vote in the upcoming elections .
I saw that people worked ruthlessly, I noticed a large number of voters. i saw the working staff was working hard all day and more and more voters were coming .
The sides discussed the prospects of deepening bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation and exchanged views on intensifying the activities of the Kazakh-Romanian parliamentary friendly groups.
in addition, there is an active phase of the implementation of barys armored wheeled vehicles, the construction of an aircraft engineering center, and the production of tactical link radio stations.
in addition, Kazakhstan has the opportunity to become a major regional player in the infrastructure fund.
there is great potential for developing relations between the two countries and strengthening the defense capabilities of the countries. "
100 billion tenge allocated to finance agricultural priorities will be raised to finance Kazagro holding.
"Since the beginning of 2015, the business holding has been implementing the international project worldskills, a non-profit international movement whose goal is to increase the level of jobs and their influence," said U. Zharmukhamedov.
For the first time, you are the leader of a diplomatic mission.
The international Turkish Academy is holding a large-scale event.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the effective implementation of the national plan will reach a new level and will improve the lives of all Kazakhstanis and strengthen economic growth.
We are well aware that we need considerable time to participate in such a complex project. we clearly understand that it is rather difficult to take a decision .
About a thousand hectares are planned to be used at the June regional investment forum.
privatization should be carried out at a fair market price, open and competitive.
in developed countries, universities are always the main providers of ideas and innovations. in developed countries , the universities are the main suppliers of ideas and innovations .
The importance of the document requires deep attention, since it aims to improve the economic situation and improve the standard of living of the population.
a. isekeshev and a. Dzhaksybekov visited Kazakhstan Light Engineering LLP for the production of high-tech electronic optical devices.
now you need to wait for the conclusion of the central election commission and compare the results of the two.
You remember that Kazakhstan also talked about the introduction of a multi-party system, and they want to gradually come to a government parallel goal.
In addition, on February 26, 2016, Kazkosmos and Ugzto signed an agreement on the results of the public procurement competition as part of the republican budget program "Retraining and advanced training of personnel in the field of space activities."
According to the Directorate of Public Administration of Aidu, the metropolitan hub is a platform that highlights the standards and principles of Aidu in the region.
As the head of the headquarters mission noted, on election day, the capital, diamonds and existing regions will be under control.
a.rau on measures taken in Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate, as well as on the readiness of the Kazakh side to solve business cooperation with Germany.
Three teams from Russian, Belarusian and Chinese servicemen took part in the competition.
And at the end of February, a new program will start for active youth and young entrepreneurs who call their business a competent composition.
I am proud to live in Kazakhstan all the time.
when hiring, as well as when conducting certification and official investigation, the use of polygraphological research is mandatory.
This subsidy is aimed at acquiring cattle, breeding cattle and sheep, increasing the yield of crop production and seed production, the head of the district said.
every citizen should wear the flag, coat of arms, anthem of Kazakhstan, "he said.
there is an increase in the number of small and medium-sized enterprises by 1.6%, which is 108.8 thousand people.	the governor of the region has noted the increase in the number of employees in small and medium enterprises by 1.6 % , which amounted more than 108 thousand people .	0,92
Expo will become a unique platform that will strengthen cooperation between enterprises of the two states in the field of energy, transport and infrastructure.
The head of state emphasized in the program report the need to create a "joint front" under the auspices of the UN in the fight against such a common threat.
Given the economic situation in the CIS countries, the initiative of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan is understandable to me. given the economic situation , the initiative of the majilis is clear .
In connection with the timely implementation of the presidential strategy, Kazakhstan has become one of the anti-crisis countries, "he said.
The head of the secretariat of the city of Astana spoke about the purpose of creating a council of public consent, highlighted the main directions of its activities.
our tires will become obsolete, namely summer and winter.
Preparations for the elections are on track, "he said.
In this regard, the head of the foreign ministry called on the diplomatic corps to actively work in this direction.
In his opinion, the new composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan should pay attention to social issues of youth.
The contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev to the formation of inter-ethnic harmony is very great.
also reached the full stage of gold - before the melting of mountain ingots, our gold replenishes the gold and foreign exchange reserves of Kazakhstan.
secondly, according to K. Tokayev, the proliferation of nuclear weapons jeopardizes the existence of humanity.
A purchasing category definition is also entered, groups are organized, and a central purchasing system is in place.
Governor of the region noted that in the modern conditions taking place in the world economy, it is necessary to coordinate work with large enterprises, commodity producers, small and medium-sized businesses, other farms and work together.
I am sure that in the future I will see many new products, "said O. Onalov.
Afghanistan's economy, with a population of 35 million, is stabilizing and intensifying. the economy of afghanistan is becoming stable and beginning to revive .
at the polling stations we visited, the elections were very active. at the polling stations that we have visited , the voting is being held extremely active , calm .
The meeting of mayors of the capital and memoranda that can be signed between the two countries were also discussed.
As part of the "socially oriented city" in the city, 7 conclusions of the Program for the Development of Preschool Education until 2020 will be implemented.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on the termination of the powers of the Majilis of the parliament of the V convocation.
I think they should be supported.
the main part of expenses is social expenses.
To date, construction and installation work has been completed at the production base, the plant is ready for work.
According to the head of the region, many residents of the Astrakhan region may be interested in holding an "expo-2017" in the capital.
No matter how difficult the racing highway is, it all depends on the skillful actions of the crews, on who leads and shoots better than combat vehicles, "said the tanker servicemen.
The political crisis in Côte d'Ivoire worsened between 2010 and 2011.
The head of state, drawing attention to the fruitful interaction of the two countries in various areas, emphasized the need to strengthen economic cooperation.
A. Ayymbetov spoke about the course of the experiment of the Kazakh Academy of Nutrition "dastarkhan-6" during his stay in space.
Within its framework, the delegation received consultations on the supply of products, financial conditions and state support equipment in Tajikistan.
evolutionality and comprehensive content are the main principle of the modernization process, which takes a step towards the centenary and advances the history of our independence.
today we can share our experience.
this is primarily due to the fact that support measures for the poor are decreasing.
The basic document for CIS observers is the provision on the mission of CIS observers in the presidential and parliamentary elections, approved by a decision of the Council of Foreign Ministers on March 26, 2004.
legalization of property and capital is beneficial both for citizens of the country and for the economy of Kazakhstan.
D.Sarekenov noted that Kazakhstan is contributing to the establishment of inter-ethnic and interreligious harmony.
antiquity will still be built on different slopes of the earth.
an agreement on a free trade zone with Vietnam was also signed.
our enterprises enter the markets of Iran, China, Russia and far abroad.
I dreamed of this from childhood and deliberately turned to the armed forces.
Since the beginning of 2015, 243,153 square meters of public housing have been built, which is 53.3% more than in the same period last year.
At the same time, the transit corridor "Western Europe-Western China," said M. Kusainov.
The 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a significant historical event in the life of Kazakhstan, in fact, in the Kazakhstan era, "the Secretary of State said.
creation of favorable conditions for efficient business development in the Eurasian Economic Integration Union.
The most important thing is that we rely on intelligent import substitution, so as not to do this unreasonably during import substitution, we make a clear analysis and expect economic feasibility in replacing products for each industry.
elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels.
I believe that these elections will be the reason for strengthening society. " artists.
since the establishment of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan in recent years, a long way has passed. over the years of work , the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan has passed a long way , gained a great experience and transformed into the institute for public diplomacy .
by intent, they knocked out a car and one soldier was seriously wounded.
in the construction industry, a unique regulatory document is adopted that regulates the process of developers passing all permitting procedures on the principle of "one window."
in all district centers, the main microdistricts of cities with age and families. in all regional centers and the main districts of ust-kamenogorsk , semey , you must install such platforms .
We again call on these countries to unite to address the most pressing issues of the region, such as water use, trade and security. the diplomats working in our country , better than others , know that over the years of independence kazakhstan is building its policy on the basis of cooperation , trust , trade with all countries .
The protocol also provides for the tasks of exchanging information regardless of the law "On confidential information," the Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan said.
during yesterday we were at several polling stations.
in addition, the Kelimbets explained for Kazakhstan the possibility of moving from a model based on commodity approaches to economic diversification.
this high-profile law outlines the reconciliation of Kazakhstan between war and humanity, the nuclear threat of international society while promoting a complete ban on nuclear weapons.
It should be noted that within the framework of the memorandum between the Mayor's Office of Almaty and the company "forum eurasia," the sairan bottle park in Medeu district will become the largest center of central Asia, attracting a large number of tourists.
it is important to develop a regional driving force for economic growth in accordance with the tasks set by the head of state.
research opens up opportunities for stability and protection of oil prices, "he said.
President of the Federation of National Sports expressed support for early elections to the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats of all levels.
During the signing of the memorandum, Governor Bozumbayev noted that "our main task is to implement measures aimed at supporting small and medium-sized businesses while preserving the modern level of development of the economy and jobs."
in the village of Akzhar before there was one campsite.
this is convenient.
the flower garden and the company plan to create an object on time, that is, in a month the kindergarten will begin work.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan, industrial-innovative policy will be aimed, firstly, at reducing the technological gap in such sectors as transport, agriculture, mining, oil and gas.
23.5 billion tenge is provided for this.
it is this industry that will allow manufacturers and developers to provide leadership in their industries in the modern world, "said the head of the defense department.
such a step would enable the world to demonstrate our cooperation. such a step would allow to show the world our unity and solidarity , as well as the originality and uniqueness of the national culture of the turkic countries .
representatives of political parties will be provided with free contacts with members of election commissions, representatives of political parties and local executive bodies. "
low prices for oil products in the domestic market, compared with Russian ones, lead to a shortage among us and vice versa - high prices in the domestic market are an influx imported from the region compared to Russian ones, primarily without me, because it is scarce in the country. the low price of petroleum products on the domestic market as compared with the russian implies a deficit in our country , and vice versa - the high price of petroleum products on the domestic market compared to the russian causes the inflow of foreign gasoline , which we have a deficit .
As part of the 23rd step of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, a separate legislation on investment disputes has been implemented in the Supreme Court since January this year.
In his speech, he noted that the policy of Kazakhstanis ensures stable and peaceful development of the country and is highly respected in the international arena.
in that regard, Kazakhstan favoured a political solution and dialogue as the only right way to address the situation.
During the meeting, the Governor of Mangistau region thanked Mr. Ambassador for his contribution to the development of cooperation between enterprises of Mangistau region and Germany, as well as for strengthening relations in the field of education and culture.
The session was attended by permanent representatives of Member States, observer countries, heads of steam agencies, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.
terrorism does not affect borders or divide a rich and poor country.
The Palace of Peace and Harmony in the capital hosts the traditional Astana forum of sociologists.
The project was adopted in July 2015.
After the president signed the decree, we made sure that this is a preliminary step. after the president has signed a decree on holding the parliamentary elections , we see that elbasy made next step for positive shift .
The production of such equipment is a new stage in the process of forming an independent Kazakhstan military-industrial complex taking into account modern trends in the development of weapons in the world.
the ceremony was attended by the military company of the guard and the orchestra of the military engineering institute of the ground forces and radio electronics and communications, about 150 servicemen of the Kazakh airmobile army, as well as the national guard, the grandson of Ivan Panfilov, students and pupils of city military-patriotic clubs.
In the next few years, the company plans to open 5 hypermarkets and 20 supermarkets, as well as in Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
our session initiates a national event dedicated to the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence.
Holding early parliamentary elections will allow young generations to present new constructive ideas, work in advanced and geopolitical conditions, said in an interview with srtategy2050.kz Director of the Center for Humanitarian Studies of the Kazakh Multidisciplinary Institute "Parasat," Doctor of Philology, Professor Nursulu Shaimerdenova.
According to the President of the Senate, time itself requires the importance of holding a conference of "religion against terrorism."
during each congress, we begin to realize the political completeness and work of party members. from congress to congress we feel better political understanding of the party members .
Chairman of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Aulay Myrzakhmetov and heads of subsidiaries of the Samruk-kazyna Foundation took part in the signing ceremony of the document.
586 persons or 114.2 per cent (513 persons plan of the year) were employed for projects implemented under State and sectoral programmes;
we flourished with labor and dedication, every day of sovereignty, not giving a year. we pay special attention to the industrial-innovative development of the country .
for us, cooperation with such brands is not only an influx of investment, but also a transfer of technology and this encourages better improvement of production, "he said.
It is worth noting that the denim salon "prestige" has been operating on the market for the 15th year.
it will be submitted to the voter or his representative on the basis of a written application by proxy between March 4 and 18:00 hours on March 19, "said L. Suleimenov.
According to him, at the aeff 2016 in the capital, it was noted that some obstacles to the economy are associated with extremism and terrorism.
we have formed many wealthy people who have accumulated capital in the country. we support our working population through implementation of the employment roadmap-2020 programme .
Updating agricultural machinery for timely crop planting. for efficient work of sowing crops , it is necessary to renew agricultural machinery .
By the end of the year, it is planned to open another 18 projects from all industrial zones of the region.
The event was attended by vice ministers, executive secretary, committee chairmen, heads of structural divisions and subordinate organizations.
in addition, the placement of the offices of doctors of neuropsychiatric, narcological dispensaries and medical commissions on the territory of specialized CSPs allowed customers to receive all related certificates in one place.
Kazakhstan, which has gained independence, has established itself today as a dynamically developing, stable state.
The final 15 step - by decision of the head of state, civil servants will undergo certification, "the minister said.
in many regions, kindergartens are funded by the state, and residents pay 13.5 thousand tenge for food. in the state kindergartens the people pay 13,500 tenge for food .
The region is discussing the possibility of implementing projects for the production of metal products, rubber products, electrode mass, hydrochloric acid, concrete clay powders, etc.
this is necessary for the implementation of the tasks set by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "he said.
accordingly, pressure on school infrastructure is growing.	that is why , our objective is to attract private capital to the construction of schools ,  the minister said .
With the participation of Deputy Minister of Defense Nurlan Sauranbaev, a memorandum was signed on the transfer of technology and equipment with norinco corp for the production of large-caliber ammunition.
the creation of public councils at city, district, regional maslikhats.
all this comes from domestic enterprises in the regions of Kazakhstan.
the results of the survey will be communicated to the media on March 21 at 00:00 hours.
Joseph King, shareholder of the Sollini concern and founder of the Malaysian Takas company, announced his intention to implement projects in Kazakhstan.
- Tatyana Vitalievna, I want to say about the great experience of your election campaign.
As they say in "Kazakhstan engineering," the choice of such production is due to the fact that oil and gas products are produced at the fields of the Caspian Sea existing in the republic.
According to the Minister, the national plan of the head of state is 100 concrete steps to implement 5 institutional reforms based on the best practices of the most developed countries in the field of creating strong institutions, ensuring transparency of the state apparatus, diversifying the economy and industrialization.
According to the data presented by the regional, metropolitan and Almaty city territorial election commissions, as of 10 a.m. on February 4, 2016, only 2,865 candidates were nominated in the republic, "said L. Suleimenov.
Thanks to the skill of Sergei Snezhkin, we laid out a big history of our country for three hours, "the Minister of Culture and Sports said at a press conference.
The work carried out during the year was also evaluated, tasks and tasks were discussed.
The representative of KTZ called Kazakhstan a "bridge" between west and east, and also noted the construction of the north and south, the "Horgos-east gate," the modernization of the whitewash port, the opening of logistics centers and the construction of new railways in Kazakhstan.
in southern Kazakhstan, 1,600 tons of garbage are exported per day, of which 20% are organic, 80% are solid household waste.
I instruct the government to continue the further transition to market pricing in all sectors of the economy.
The Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan noted the importance of cooperation with a colleague from the celestial, and not with the head of a large Chinese corporation in the film industry.
According to the minister, the successful version of the school uniform should meet the requirements of its appearance, convenience, safety and functionality.
The second stage is to bring the plant's capacity to 120 thousand units of equipment per year until 2020, "K. Zhumabauly said.
the ambassador informed and. Bokov about Kazakhstan's contribution to the preservation of cultural heritage, mutual respect and tolerance to cultures and the work of the final executive board of UNESCO from the point of view of education and science.
this year, within the framework of improving combat training, a number of international exercises and competitions with the participation of Kazakhstani servicemen are planned.
thanks to the increase in the effectiveness of state support, next year it is planned to reform the current subsidy system, improve insurance in the field of crop production, "said E. Dossaev.
- Deputy Party Chairman, Chairman of the Association of Finaksin Financial and Tax Advisers Catherine Nikitinskaya;
after modernization, we will get rid of import dependence and be able to provide ourselves.
To ensure the legislative implementation of the fourth direction of the Plan of the Nation by the parliament, amendments and additions were made to the laws on the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, state symbols, culture and historical and cultural heritage, tourism, and the activities of non-governmental organizations.
there is also an insufficient number of units of operational-tactical and army aviation, air defense and artillery, "said the representative of the joint headquarters of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, Major General Perikbai Sultans.
For immunization of the population, a comprehensive vaccine is used to create immunity against diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus.
The French company mbda is a world leader in the production of anti-ship missiles.
we are conducting public monitoring of this programme with regard to youth policy. we are monitoring these public programs related to the field of the youth policy .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the allocation of significant funds to support the domestic economy in times of crisis was made possible thanks to the timely creation of a national fund, the reform of the pension system and the economy as a whole, as well as the transition to the free rate of tenge.
we are engaged in the creation of a transport and logistics center in Petropavlovsk. today we are working to create transport and logistics center in petropavlovsk .
On these holidays I wish all Kazakhstanis peace, prosperity and prosperity!
however, it is pleasant that there are many young people among the observers, and we try to support them.
This inspired us to organize the republican competition of craftsmen "Great Steppe Art."
Given the commission's optimal ties with other Latin American countries - Chile and Peru, Mexican Deputy Minister of Economy for Foreign Trade Francisco Rosenzweig proposed concluding a memorandum between the Government of Mexico and the Government of Mexico.
288 people were nominated to the district maslikhats.
The main problem for us is the preservation of peace and stability, "said the director of the Institute of State History of the Committee of Science.
for your country, this one historical event will remain in the memory of many generations, "the head of state said.
specialists from far abroad also arrived.
Recall that Kazakhstan became the 162nd full-fledged member of the World Trade Organization.
Toast 2016 "is taking place for the fourth time.
As part of the legalization of property, 162 applications worth 1 billion 215 million tenge have been received since the beginning of 2016. since the beginning of 2016 karatau district , shymkent , got 162 applications for property legalization .
We studied the effectiveness of practical legislation adopted in the country on January 1, 2015. we have studied the efficacy of legislation , used in our country since january 1 , 2015 .
Today, President Nursultan Nazarbayev pays great attention to youth, we give traditions and culture to the younger generation.
This order of the head of state was satisfied with us.
It is expected that the plant will be opened at the end of the first half of the year.
The Shymkent City project is being implemented as part of the order of the head of state to turn our city into a third metropolis.
The event was attended by representatives of government bodies, the business community, as well as the media and experts.
In October, a visit of the Swedish business delegation to the North Kazakhstan region was planned.
It is planned to export 1.5 thousand tons of meat by the end of the year.
Bakytzhan sagintayev also invited businessmen from Kazakhstan to take part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017, which will give an additional impetus to the development of "green technologies," will allow to widely offer best practices and promote energy-efficient programs.
the hub agenda is a flexible tool, and we are trying to find good solutions instead of copying experience. the agenda of the hub is a flexible tool , and we are trying to find the best solutions , instead of copying the best practices .
It will include preventive examinations of children, the organization of health measures for the calendar period of school activity, the introduction of school health technologies, "said Tamara Dusenova.
To implement this task, we will sign memoranda on increasing the Kazakh content in the construction of expo facilities.
I see it as a decisive mechanism for the success of the entire modernization process in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, reducing customs duties will reduce the cost of these securities and increase competitiveness, "explained the Minister of Trade veronika nikishina.
today we showed the halls that were previously closed to visitors. today we showed the rooms that were previously closed , they were not available to the public .
I am sure that now we will implement joint projects with Swedish companies, "said E. Sultanov.
the calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on changes in output indices for major sectors, such as agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to 67-68%, "the report said.
In addition, the Lithuanian delegation headed by the Director of the Department of International Cooperation and Operations of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Lithuania, Robert Šapronas, went to the National University of Defense named after the first president to give lectures to students, as well as meetings at the Center for Military Strategic Studies.
I want the new composition of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan to pay special attention to the state and development of yards, "said K. Kuyukov.
all must do their work in a timely manner and take stock.
let peace and harmony always be our value.
we are developing a bill that will be presented at a meeting of the commission in July this year, "said M. Susainov.
scandalous risks in international relations are increasing.
The Eurasian Economic Union needs to conclude a free trade agreement with key regional markets.
revision of a number of provisions of the State Property Act and the Civil Code and reduction of the number of strategic facilities not subject to privatization.
As part of the celebration of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan, various festive events are planned in all countries.
The event was attended by deputy ministers for energy of the countries of the Union, representatives of state competent bodies, heads of energy companies, experts of commissions, representatives of the executive committee of the CIS Electricity Council, the press service of the commission said.
the purpose of the project is to support large Kazakhstani companies in the field of processing and import substitution.
we also have a lot of work on the issue of renewing energy sources. we work hardly on renewable energy , solar energy , hydroenergy , wind energy .
K. Tokayev drew the attention of the audience to the need to carefully study the conceptual and organizational issues of the conference.
Following the results of the seminar, a memorandum of cooperation was concluded between the akimat and the university.
therefore, new ideas are needed.
In particular, they got acquainted with the construction facilities of a school with 150 places in the village of culture, where construction work is underway in the Baidibek district, and the Zhambyl reservoir with water supply of 1250 hectares in the village of Zhambyl.
It is noted that the Order of "friendship" of the 1st degree was awarded to the general director of the state corporation "Roscosmos" Igor mosquitoes and "yu." a. Gagarin GDC "Yuri Lonchakov.
state support measures were provided through the "development" in the first direction of the "Business Roadmap" program.
According to the results of the work done, the number of target indicators and strategic plans was reduced by three times, the prepared budget program at the central level - by half.
your cultures and stories will be recognized. your culture , your history will suddenly become famous , " - a. rosso said .
they did not provide us with lists, so we cannot accurately talk about their participation, but we hope that they will take part, "the CEC of Kazakhstan reports.
The XXIV session dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence of Kazakhstan will be attended by 1,500 people.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, the People's Assembly is one of the greatest values ​ ​ of our independence.
as a result, a number of problematic issues were identified in the field of customs clearance, opening a bank account when registering an enterprise, registering property and construction, and others.
the modern period is associated with a global crisis. the current stage of development is characterized by the global crisis .
To that end, State programmes were being developed and housing was being provided.
Abdikalikova noted that one of the first decrees of the head of state was the decision to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
today we must set ourselves a goal and move on to its implementation, "said a. Musakozhaeva.
During the meeting, issues related to the organization of interaction between ecu/diakb and experts of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan were discussed.
I would say that the most important thing here is "unity and unity."
as part of the first stage, servicemen of the Kazakh peacekeeping battalion "Kazbat" together with American and British colleagues will exchange experience on the work of the battalion headquarters, company personnel management, rules for the use of strong, tactical communications, actions of the engineering and sapper group, tactical medical assistance and evacuation, obtaining certification for water treatment, etc.
a model of inter-ethnic tolerance and unity of the people is being formed in the country, "he said.
As the head of the mission noted, within two years the members of the delegation arrive.
The Eurasian Economic Union in the West is perceived very often.
Currently, the Central Election Commission is covered by all necessary personnel, material and financial resources and is ready for elections. currently , the cec has all the necessary resources and is ready for the elections .
According to klaudio vietsolle, ekdb is the largest investor in Kazakhstan.
in order to achieve a long-term goal, an effective public service was essential. the effective public service is very important in order to achieve long-term goals .
March 20, 2016, the most sacred for our people, the beginning of the year, we plan to hold a big event for the benefit of our country, our people.
we are pleased with the success of brotherly Kazakhstan in Hungary.	kazakhstan should not forget their roots and traditions .	0,93
all conditions for preschoolers will be created here.	all conditions will be created for preschool children for the harmonious and comprehensive development .	0,93
I sincerely express my condolences to the families and relatives of the victims.
During the conversation, the heads of state discussed the current aspects of bilateral cooperation, as well as the creation of a number of relevant regional and international, including a single world network to counter international terrorism and extremism.
the world. The Twenty-first Century "has a major impact on limiting the world that causes war and addressing the conflicts of global competition in the areas of international trade, finance and development with the promotion of justice.
everything passes at the proper level, "said the Greek observer.
As a result, the efforts of the electoral authorities and all participants in the electoral process should be aimed at conducting a fair and transparent election campaign in accordance with the requirements of the electoral law and international generally recognized principles, T. Okhlopkova said at the end of the briefing.
According to experts, the transit potential of Kazakhstan is 1.650 million containers per year (dfe), the press service of Kazakhstan Railway reports.
partnership with the European Union is one of the priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall, the "Investor Alliance" is a voluntary association with independent investors that carries out investment activities in Kazakhstan and abroad.
After the construction of six compressor stations, which will be completed in 2017, the annual capacity of the network with "will be 25 billion cubic meters.
we all have a great responsibility for the future of our country.
For 25 years, 965 thousand people arrived in the country, they received Kazakh citizenship, "said Ms. Abdykalikova.
the increase in the number of appeals indicates an increase in interest from the population, "the head of the Ministry of Finance emphasized.
During the visit, meetings were held with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Australian Ministries of the Environment, the Chairmen of the Legislative Councils of Victoria and the Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Trade, as well as representatives of the business and scientific communities of Canberra and Melbourne.
The President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the work of the factory and the main types of products produced in it.
The industrialization programme, launched in 2010, has transformed investment in the manufacturing sector.
For the history of Kazakhstan, this year is very important - the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the constitution, the 70th anniversary of the great victory. this year is special in the history of kazakhstan : the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate , the 20th anniversary of the constitution , the 70th anniversary of the great victory .
So, aktobe, akimats of Kyzylorda and Mangistau regions, children's institutions and non-governmental organizations.
Women may work in all spheres of economic activity on an equal footing with male citizens.
creation of conditions for maximum participation of Kazakhstan and foreign investors.
I remember that the message of President Nazarbayev in 2015 was the focus of attention of the people. i remember the president 's address attracted much attention of the international community .
1) establishing a system for assessing and monitoring the performance of the JSC;
A. Stefansky noted that the preparation and organization of the exhibition is in full swing.
seventh, on the basis of the new law and after the introduction of the new wage system, it is planned to conduct a comprehensive certification of administrative civil servants of the B corps for compliance with the new qualification requirements.
The event was attended by deputy mayors of districts and cities, members of organizational commissions, representatives of departments of internal policy, culture and education, the regional philharmonic society named after Gaziza Zhubanova, the regional drama theater named after T.htanova.
words of gratitude have a profound meaning. the meaning of the word " gratitude " is deep .
Kazakhstan has started production of complex drugs, disposable medical equipment, medical equipment and equipment.
Also, in order to improve the quality of the educational process, the first group of teachers will undergo training under the program "management in the field of education" in schools and secondary special educational institutions.
Also scientists, lawyers, lawyers and the international experts can participate in their work.
In 2016, marks the 25th anniversary of the country's sovereignty.
It should be noted that in the conference call, along with the apparatus of the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the deputy commanders of the regional command, the branches of the troops and their deputies, the commanders of the military units and institutions of Akmola, diamond, semey, Karaganda, Taraz and Atyrau garrisons took part.
to improve the rivers alakol, balkhash and kapchagai.
In turn, we can disappoint international investors and lose capital.	the holding of elections is lead to the fact that the outflow of the capital will be lower ,  zh.sabitov said .
According to the chairman of the expert commission, the general director of tarlanpm group LLP sarin biumbayeva, this competition allowed students at colleges and colleges to develop their entrepreneurial initiative.
secondly, distortions in market incentives in the form of artificial price regulation must be eliminated.
What measures will the Government take in this regard?
we provide assistance as food products twice a year, provide free glasses, wheelchairs, dentists, hearing aids and sanatorium vacations, "said E. Shwart.
in fact, strengthening his economy and institution was not easy.
In the next 3 years, we plan to double the market service company in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
During the meeting, the head of state was informed about the results of the fund's activities for 2015 and 5 months of this year, as well as about the projects being implemented, planned.
it will contribute to the growth of the construction industry, the preservation and creation of jobs, an increase in budget investments and support for small and medium-sized businesses.
The bill was developed according to the 53rd step of the National Plan, as well as during the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev of November 30, 2015.
In recent years, the country has been actively implementing energy conservation and state energy efficiency policy, compiled regulatory legal and regulatory technical documents, conducted energy audits, and introduced an energy management system.
If in 2015 maternal mortality per 100 thousand newborns amounted to 7 people, then in the first quarter of this year this figure was zero.
conversation, corporate machine and tractor stations, granaries and others.
we plan to exchange experience with the Kazakh side in this direction, "he said.
grant funds will amount to 21.7 million US dollars.
In general, a good trend is visible, and now it cannot be removed from your hands.
every year the number changes, as military personnel move from one level to another.
personnel turns always occur. there will be personnel changes always .
According to the expert, economic stability is necessary for the creation and implementation of the national plan.
The Kazakh company Kaztekhnologii, with the support of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, has concluded a number of agreements with the People's Republic of China.
Currently, relevant project documents have been prepared, topographic and geodetic work is underway.
Following the meeting, an agreement was reached on expanded cooperation with two financial centers.
Then our famous reformers considered the issues of repeating the "Singapore miracle" of the post-Soviet council and called Kazakhstan for such a scenario.
The meeting was attended by experts of the competent state body and representatives of the business community of the EAEU countries.
the state body, for its part, takes into account the expediency and need in the region and the state, "said A. Nbetov.
The event was attended by well-known representatives of the socio-political, business and expert environment of Kazakhstan and Germany, in particular, the German side - Eastern European, Caucasian and Central Asian countries in the Andreas furnace, director of the German Council for Domestic Policy eberhard zandschneider, executive director of the German Committee for the Eastern Economy lindner, etc., on the Kazakh side - Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany bolat nusupov, chairman of the transport committee of the world asavbayev, director of the Institute of World Economy and Politics Sultan Akimbayev, etc.
In addition, the Deputy Minister noted that the work on the implementation of the UN Security Council anti-terrorism directorate mission, which arrived in Kazakhstan a week ago to fulfill its international monitoring task, has been completed.
I am grateful that the forum will be held in the capital.
The purpose of the project is to popularize and popularize the values ​ ​ of good, peace, mutual support, good among society.
in Kazakhstan, representatives of different nationalities live in poverty and harmony. people of different nationalities live in kazakhstan in peace and harmony .
The main directions of the program are the expansion of the capacities of enterprises in the metallurgical industry.
According to the press service of Akorda, smailov alikhan askhanovich was appointed assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the geography of military conflicts covers the historical limit of the actions of two previous world wars - the war in eastern Europe, in northern Africa, in the middle east.
On the same day, the tarlan boxing center was inaugurated in the regional center.
The meeting noted the most important issues of cooperation.
At the regional level, branches of the national bank are actively involved, whose representatives check the availability of information materials on the conditions for legalization in the head offices and branches of the BWU, determine the degree of awareness of the bank's responsible employees about the campaign, write out citizens' comments, and conduct explanatory work. at the regional level , the branches of the national bank are actively involved , their representatives attend head offices and branches of second-tier banks and check the availability of information materials about the legalization conditions , determine the degree of awareness of decision-makers of banks on ongoing action , fix the citizens ' comments , " akishev said .
provocateurs should be exposed and punished in accordance with the country's legislation, "said N. Nazarbayev.
they will become a model of technical and vocational education for the whole country.
we consider this initiative of Majilis deputies reasonable and correct. we believe that the initiative of the deputies is quite logical , and i can explain why .
organized the first environmental festival g-global, "coalition for g-global development and green economy" and "acbot," buuba in Kazakhstan.
an important aspect is the diplomatic international activities of the Head of State. during the visits the head of state was accompanied by the heads of economic block of the government , the business structures .
however, in connection with the arrival today of the head of the Zhanaozensky Dairy Plant zhakayeva, it has become a powerful enterprise in the region.
On the other hand, this speaks of great tolerance and strength of the human spirit, "said Nusustan Nazarbayev.
24 multi-storey buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 1230 apartments are being built through the ubkh'ak baiterek in Kyzylorda.
To protect the Ural population in Uralsk, the Ural branch of Okhotzoprom was opened.
According to the senator, since the beginning of 2015, about 600 documents have been adopted, most of which cover industry, energy, transport and other industries, "the report said.
In general, I have received a good impression from these elections and emphasize progress. in general , i am impressed with this election , i can note a progress .
- Kazakhs, Hungarians had Tengrianism.
therefore, we work with current investors.
medium-complexity work - construction of industrial facilities on the beach, transportation of complex cargo, laying pipelines and much more.	here , more than 90-95 % domestic companies are working ,  - said a. kudaibergen .
here we are ready to provide an investment subsidy, duty-free import of equipment and import of raw materials for 3-5 years, as well as assistance in organizing this profession, "said E. Muratov.
every Kazakhstani, thinking about his security, hopes primarily for our armed forces. thinking about his safety , every citizen of kazakhstan relies on our armed forces .
Let me report on the implementation of protocol instructions for the development of the oath at the last meeting. let me inform you about the implementation of the protocol instructions of the last meeting , which was devoted to the development of agribusiness .
According to the First Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan began to use a simplified facility for active investigation.
if we briefly talk about the results, the allocated amount of 1.6 billion tenge is funds allocated for more than 5 years. if we talk briefly about the results , the amount 1.6 billion tenge is allocated for the past almost five years .
here, firstly, time is saved and budget funds are saved in a crisis.
in total, about 70 returnees of culture, art, sports and religion were awarded the Orders of Honor and Labor Glory, some were awarded the honorary title Honored Worker of Kazakhstan.
solar, wind, water power plants.
- The Head of State very effectively fit into the humanistic concept of the "eternal country."
Thanks to preschool institutions working under the kindergarten program, the queue for kindergarten for 1,500 places decreased in the city.
I wish all collectives to serve in the name of prosperity of society and the state, "said the sprinkler.
As the party will work in the next 5 years, such topical issues as ensuring the unity of Kazakhstan's society, the development of science, the development of culture and sports are voiced on the party's platform, "A. Bashmakov said.
in difficult foreign policy conditions, the new composition of the meeting will quickly respond to changes in the situation, "said the Russian expert.
We are tasked to complete the construction work by the end of the year and immediately begin preparations for EXPO-2017, "the head of state said.
At the meeting, the Presidents of the Union approved the main directions of macroeconomic policy of the EAEU member states for 2016-2017. at the meeting , the presidents of the union countries have approved the basic guidelines of macroeconomic policy for 2016-2017 .
this institute will be introduced in the apparatus of akims of the regions, cities of the capital and Almaty. the institution will operate in mayor administrations in astana and almaty cities and regions .
In our opinion, prices will still decline, and then - for drilling and overhaul.
the information in the questionnaire is stored on the basis of our mission.
The Council should become a new bridge for the implementation of civil initiatives, create favorable conditions for establishing ties with the expert research society and the academic environment, establish contacts between civil and diplomatic workers, "said B.Atimov.
According to him, the number of prematurely released is 9,000 people, mitigated crimes - 5520 people.
In particular, the issue of supplying products of the Bipek Auto-Asia Auto holding to the Mongolian market will be considered.
they will have several thousand hectares of land.
I know that you pay great attention to environmental protection and safety at work. i know that you pay more attention to environmental protection and safety at work .
in Kazakhstan, more than 1.5 million citizens receive various benefits and payments from the state.
among them are well-known republican politicians, public figures, athletes and actors.
inefficient companies are in line to receive various types of subsidies and benefits from the state.
the organizer of the festival is the Dance Zhuldyzai corporate fund.
How to feed a monkey?
In 2016, the Development Fund will continue to attract preferential funds from international financial organizations (MFIs).
interregional migrants account for 42.5 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
over the past five years compared to 2016, we have increased container transportation from China to Europe by 100 times. for 5 years we have managed to increase the transportation of containers from china to europe 100 times .
As of January 1, 2016, the number of voters is 475,447 people.
political parties approve election programmes and call for voting through public information.
lamps are supplied to the territory of Kazakhstan with the help of companies engaged in and selling their production.
As part of the plant for the production of medical preparations in Semey: workshops for the production of infusion, galen-packaging and enzymatic preparations, hematogen.
- How do women differ in modern art?
its main part was planned to be placed at the Zixto plant.
also ensure the readiness of the infrastructure of the capital for the event and the reception of guests.
About 100 countries and 10 international organizations will take part in it.
in the upper part - a voluminous five-pointed star, and in the lower - the inscription "Kazakhstan."
Kazakhstan has a lot of irrigated land, there are great opportunities in this area.
the document provides ways to further develop the domestic market of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with high-quality oil products.
living together, we spiritually enrich each other.
The Permanent Mission of Kazakhstan to the UN, the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, the Office of the Deputy General Secretariat of the UN for underdeveloped, developing, landlocked and small island developing states took part in its organization, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
the project investor is a transnational corporation carmeuse group (Belgium), which has dozens of plants around the world and is a leader in the production of lime for the purposes of metallurgical production.
If the head of state supports this initiative, new instructions will be given at the meeting, "he said.
after each crisis there is a new growth, stability.
According to the head of state, this wave will promote Kazakhstan in conditions of difficult competition with new technologies.
I think that the turnout for the elections will be high, "he said.
In general, voters actively participate in these elections, "said R. Bekbasarov.
As you know, the main goal of the codex is the transition to international standards.
For 5 months of 2016, the courts granted 2086 claims in which applications were illegally filed.
despite the difficult economic situation, especially in the mining and metallurgical industry, will at the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev. "
the capital became a city of universal labor.
For us, this is a very positive step - to fulfill someone's dream and prove the presence of New Year's magic, "shared the bayram aziz, head of the white press service of Kazpost.
According to experts, Kazakhstan is undergoing a large modernization of the armed forces, new directions for training military personnel are being introduced.
we wish you good health, happiness and life in the world and the consent of the younger generation.
this visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev is also important for the exchange of views on the way to jointly find the right solution in the current situation.
The meeting is planned to discuss ways to further develop bilateral relations in the trade, economic, transit, transport and energy spheres.
During the ceremony, the President of Kazakhstan presented credentials to the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Israel and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Uzbekistan Mikhail Brodsky, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Uzbekistan Ikr Nazarov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Azerbaijan Rashad Mammadov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Kingdom of Thailand.
The state corporation was created as a result of the merger of four republican enterprises - public service centers, real estate, land cadastre and pension payment centers.
Despite the global crisis, we are directing all resources to support the people of work.
in general, the message this year is a roadmap for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
lots auctioned - 10 for mining, 28 for exploration.
the uniqueness of today's exhibition is that each medal and each order have their own history.	the order of the  great badr , " which is the highest award of the kingdom of saudi arabia , is of great interest .
obtaining a working profession - in relation to youth.
the main thing is to go through the pre-crisis stages.
These candidates are included in the congress, "said a. Myrzakhmetov.
The 43 of the object and securities in the amount of 1,147,5 million tenge have been legalized.
as a result, our country entered a crisis in a renewed and powerful state.
In honor of the significant holiday, 5 new social facilities were put into operation in the Ordabasy district.
we participate in large-scale transformations and solving social and social issues of the republic.
keeping feeds, especially, is the most difficult for bees.
participants of the meeting discussed legislative and practical aspects of investment activities, conditions with the possibility of providing state support to enterprises for the promotion of goods and products of service producers.
dear members of the board, diplomatic workers, like all countries, this year we celebrate the 25th anniversary. dear participants of the diplomatic service , this year we will mark the 25th anniversary of our independence .
According to him, the early and joint holding of elections to maslikhats of all levels will significantly save budget funds.
ahead of the independence day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The owner of the cup was the "arrow" team from school No. 7 in Petropavlovsk.
in fact, the guarantee of this popular trust was a historical act when we have a united nation.	in fact , it was a historic act of the birth of our nation of common future ,  the head of state stressed .
we purchase laboratory plants that will be aimed at petrochemicals and metallurgy. we purchased the laboratory equipment for petrochemical and metallurgical industries .
- Head of Mangistau Regional Forestry and Forestry Inspectorate;
independence is a clumsy work of modern Kazakhstanis, "N. Nazarbayev said.
microcredit is carried out in accordance with the entrepreneurship development map.
this process must be postponed in the opposite direction.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that young people should use the opportunities offered at present.
According to the director of the plant, Abdibek Pashkaev, the company plans to increase the range of cheeses for deliveries to Russia in 2015-2016.
In accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission, on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, accredited another 207 observers from two election observation missions, two international organizations and 29 foreign states. as of march 14 , 2016 on the proposal of the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan the central election commission has accredited 815 observers from the international organizations and foreign countries .
This time, Kazakhstan for the first time applied an anti-crisis strategy.
five nuclear Powers have declared a moratorium on nuclear weapons testing and are adhering to it.
our people live in cooperation and unity.
A. Pesche highly appreciated the level of bilateral cooperation and noted that this is his first visit to Kazakhstan in this position.
and the stele itself with a samurai bird on the roof reflects the desire of the Kazakh people for the future, further development and prosperity, "the national bank said in a statement.
railway dead ends, dormitories, production workshops.
effective external influences such as the price of oil, the exchange rate in the countries that are our trading partners, have stabilized. such fundamental external factors as oil prices and currency rates in the countries that happen to be our trade partners have stabilized .
he also noted that German business is also developing in Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to develop various formats of meetings, "the Kazakh delegation said.
we need to learn to live in new economic conditions. we must learn to live in a new reality , to find development opportunities , to overcome the risks .
1 . The Ministry of Information and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the assignment of its functions and powers in the field of information, informatization and communications to the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we must develop the agro-industrial complex, while the reserve is quite significant. i would like to mention such a direction as agriculture , in which the reserves have enormous .
Today, under the chairmanship of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan is taking place.
Spain is one of the main political partners of Kazakhstan in euros.
The head of state noted that various approaches will be applied to ensure transparency in the use of funds coming from abroad, Israel, Germany and several other foreign countries.
products of Kazakhstan brand status plast are widely used in subsoil use and water supply, enterprises for the production and processing of uranium products, construction and installation organizations, housing and communal services, laying and replacing networks and replacing water supply and sewerage networks.
It should be noted that the presented funds will be directed directly to the development of microcredit of the population of Mangistau region.
Since the fall of 2011, the International Monetary Fund has revised forecast indicators 6 times, reducing them from 5 to 3%.
we regulate our actions in accordance with market conditions and external challenges, "said A. Aydarbayev.
During the meeting, the student reported to the head of state on the situation in the oil and gas sector and the electric power industry, environmental protection, the nuclear industry and other areas of the ministry.
The United States is proud to be a partner in Kazakhstan's path of prosperity and democracy. the united states is proud of being a partner of kazakhstan that is walking its way towards prosperity and democracy .
the test site is also directly owned by Google, "said S. Kettebekov.
According to the Foreign Ministry, the document was signed by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Saudi Arabia, the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Batrashev and the President of the country Ahmad Muhammad Ali.
As the Minister noted, comprehensive measures had an impact on the demographic situation in the country.
this program is fundamentally designed to change and improve the effectiveness of the entire group of companies of the fund.
members of the Council of Metrologists, metrological services and domestic producers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
By the way, this production is wasteless.
The head of the region noted that cooperation between northern Kazakhstan and the Kurgan region has been going on for several years.
this has a great result.
On the agenda are considered methods and procedure for resolving investment disputes, a new code of ethics.
in this regard, rapid elections should be held in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the task of the state and society is to educate the new Kazakh generation, in which spiritual values ​ ​ are adapted to life skills, "the secretary emphasized.
here we are talking about the creation of the Shu Development Bank. it is about creating the development bank of the sco .
Currently, all enterprises have implemented an energy management system in accordance with international standards iso-50001.
updating the mandate of the legislative body to ensure the rule of law in difficult conditions, the formation of an open government, the effectiveness of deep reforms to create conditions for the further growth of the economy of Kazakhstan - an initiative.
today he works in one place, he is not tied to an apartment, can go to another city, rent an apartment and continue his business.
Kazakhstan declares its firm readiness to join this process, "the statement said.
As of October 2015, there are 724 active microfinance organizations in Kazakhstan. in kazakhstan , today , there are 724 microcredit organizations ( mcos ) .
Kazakhstan has an institution of president and parliament.
the UK delegation consists of about 80 athletes. the british delegation will consist of 80 athletes .
we upgraded the website, launched an updated version from Friday. we have modernized the website and we launched an updated version .
We believe that public-private partnership should be developed in this area. we need to calculate the outlook for the state orders in terms of today , the current system , and compulsory social health insurance .
terminal finds the desired parcel in the system and issues a ticket with the located shelf, rows and cell number.
because our artists have always been able to think independently and sought to bring it out through their works, "said Darhan Mynbai, director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to him, documents for admission to the scholarship are issued in three ways.
In addition, B.Sagintayev noted that Kazakhstan is ready for open dialogue with foreign partners on all issues and is ready to study the experience of other countries in the fight against global efforts and share ways of their application.
The Dutch side expressed interest in participating in agricultural projects as a supplier of equipment, both technological support and project financing through various financial instruments.
it is aimed at attracting young people to work in the regions of the republic.
It is worth noting that international observers can work in our country in two orders.
Since the beginning of the year, 4810 citizens have applied to the employment center of the Mayor's Office of Astana, 2195 people have been employed, of which 63 are directed to social jobs, 220 to youth practice, 919 people have taken part in public works, 307 people are retrained.
Food for children under 5-6 years of age in Almaty is paid by the state, and in commercial conditions, parents pay for themselves up to 3-5 years.
we go into a business structure with them.	it is absolutely harmless to the environment ,  the governor has said .
This is correct, that is, after we work there, we must be its owners, "said V. Simchuk.
that's interesting.
Tasks within the framework of the National Plan require a master of their business. "
photo: 24.kz
the capital is the capital, and it should always be an example for all regions, "the president said.
over the past year, the global oil and gas industry has undergone a number of changes based on falling prices and economic instability. over the past year the global oil and gas industry has undergone a series of fundamental changes on the background of falling prices and economic instability .
also noted that one of the most important areas of international military cooperation is education and science, and thanked the Lithuanian side for the proposed quota for participating in course training.
Also, to increase the investment attractiveness of the industrial zone and the convenience of business entities in it, the akimat of Almaty is developing 8 projects for the construction of internal engineering networks totaling 7.8 billion tenge.
According to the ministry, at a meeting with the Minister of Transport of Latvia Uldis Augulis, issues of road construction and the opening of regular flights from the capital to Latvia were discussed.
President of Nazarbayev University Shiite Katsu and Vice President of Innovation of Nazarbayev University will take part in the press conference.
273.4 thousand tons of milk were fed.
we did not have the opportunity to train diplomats at the international level.
All business facilities are approved by the investor in agreement with the akimat.
amendments to legislation on the provision of public services and state regulation of the production and circulation of certain types of petroleum products will be discussed in the second reading.
we are different, sometimes we hold opposite views.
However, future women entrepreneurs cannot start a career for the first time, "said K. Aralbekov.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
In turn, the head of the secretariat of the Expo-2017 Commissioner, Ayan Erenov, noted that after the last meeting of the members of the executive committee, work was carried out to attract international participants and develop a legal framework.
According to experts, its implementation will strengthen the independence of our country.
In April, the charter of the cooperative will be prepared, in the future the main works will be carried out.
special sports clothing will be created for our Paralympians. parade and sports uniforms for paralympic athletes will be manufactured .
The head of state instructed to actively pursue investment policy in the message.
they still do not understand what documents should be issued or what benefits will be provided, "the governor of the region said.
In addition, the Secretary of State invited the Emirati side to take part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana.
the state secretary noted that the most important value of the national patriotic idea "The m g_l_k ate" - secular society and high spirituality - urges all citizens of our country to unite.
this indicates a high level of partner communication between the allies. "
In this direction, measures have been taken in the republic to develop mass sports and its infrastructure, improve the material and technical base, the minister explained.
firstly, I instruct the government to develop concrete proposals to strengthen antimonopoly activities.
in recent years, the visa issued by our embassy has grown significantly in Prague. in the last year the number of visas issued by our embassy in prague is growing noticeably .
for example, the seaport "in 2013, 5 projects were implemented on its territory, and to date, 11 productions are operating in the amount of 2.5 years.
An anti-crisis plan has been developed at the regional level.
In addition, gentle people make a great contribution to the public life of the region, the development of civic institutions.
Before developing the program, we met the methods and goals.
But the financiers in our country are not with us, but now they believe.
we are worthy, every step was able to overcome this crisis.
K.Tokayev and Karchevsky agreed to continue the inter-parliamentary dialogue and interaction of the highest houses of parliaments of the two countries.
Following the results of the working trip, the Secretary of State gave a number of specific instructions to state bodies.
its policy will further lead Kazakhstan out of the global economic crisis.
the senator spoke about the attractive prospects for developing cooperation in the creation of a free trade zone with the states of Europe and Asia and various integration associations, including Shu.
transport, communications and transportation.
foreign experts commended the introduction of norms aimed at international standards into national legislation.
these are materials and documents at the meeting of the congress, the secretariat of leaders of world and traditional religions, originals and copies of official documents, information on various projects, books and other items.	in his words , the museum will showcase documents and materials of the congress , the secretariat , original documents and copies , photos , information about various projects , etc .	0,94
we do our work on a three-base basis.	our work is based on three basic principles .	0,94
the national bank needs to start checking the banking sector for non-performing loans.
it was the first document in human history to comprehensively disclose economic and social human rights.
If we talk about the memorial significance of the object, where the museum of the first President of Kazakhstan is located today, it should be noted here that each hall, each exposition is rich in pages of the history of the formation of a sovereign state, "B.Kaipova said.
The project provides for the construction of a production complex for the extraction of lime of 1 grade to meet the needs of enterprises in the metallurgical, chemical and food industries.
This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of our independence.
however, B.Sagintayev suggested discussing other issues.
the next year is the year of parliamentary elections.
the Chinese attach great importance to the development of relations with Kazakhstan.
akmola wheat, Aktobe flour and pasta, Kyzylorda rice and Kostanay candy, as well as weight cement are exported to Tajikistan.
I can't hide the admiration for the department's promotion and work. i am impressed with the progress and management .
development of the main activity of the kazatomprom, expansion of the market for uranium products and diversification of production.
compared to today and the past, Kazakhstan has two separate public environments.
Getting an example, art, lessons from the difficulties that we have experienced, we must achieve a bright future for our country. together we have faced many challenges , and achieved the highest rate of successful economic development throughout our history , " said nursultan nazarbayev .
before that, we were in eight regions of northern and central Kazakhstan.
the organization will work with flexibility, "he added.
In the XII extraordinary elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, candidates from the rural people's democratic patriotic party were elected.
All funds exempted from budget optimization should be directed primarily to projects that bring real results to the population.
in the nomination "The best enterprise in the field of labor protection," participants of the Zhambyl and Atyrau regions were identified as the leader.
I am sure that our economy will benefit greatly from the agreement signed, "said the Xiang moon.
in this regard, we did not dream more than the capital. in this regard , astana is the best city for religious leaders to prevent violent extremism .
Within the framework of the general conference, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrysov and Director General of Unido Li Yun held a meeting to discuss the current situation of cooperation.
the company carries out its activities in the field of confectionery, wholesale and retail trade and catering services.
as part of its legislative provision, a new civil procedure code and a new law "On the Supreme Judicial Council" were adopted.
youth education is one of the main priority areas of the implementation of Kazakhstan's state policy, "he said.
It is worth noting that agricultural products in the center will be supplied to Almaty region, yuko, vko and Kyrgyzstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev talked with students, wished them success and expressed a desire to achieve a better result in their studies.
the new housing policy will focus on large-scale construction of rental housing and will contribute to the strengthening of young families. the new housing policy will be focused on the large-scale construction of rental housing , which is very important for the formation and strengthening of young families .
In turn, Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan Daniyar Akishev noted that the work on information coverage and support of the ongoing legalization has been strengthened by publishing understandable and accessible information on the websites of the National Bank and edb.
Of course, this is the right decision, because the geoeconomic situation is deteriorating.
I am very glad that they will all be presented at the Astana Opera Theater.
In 2015, imports of China amounted to 2015 billion dollars in 103,984.
we call on all political parties to fight honestly and openly - to participate in new elections.
its viability implies the integration of Kazakhstan and Russia with national interest in the Eurasian direction.
many women are engaged in the household, so in three years we have trained 5,000 women from the villages of Akmola, Karaganda, Almaty regions on the basics of the green economy.
especially popular specialists - oncology, cardiology and pediatric neurology.
The Governor also called for the establishment of partnerships on the development of agricultural logistics in the region, the development of small and medium-sized businesses and such projects as the provision of social infrastructure (gas, water, electricity, roads), irrigation work.
We plan to increase the organization of entrepreneurial dialogue between Kazakhstan and India.
As a result, 63% of the budget funds spent on the construction of the territory were repaid, 1 billion 271 million tenge of taxes were received in the treasury, "the general director said.
Kazakhstan was recognized as the dominant player in the process of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons thanks to the wise and far-sighted policy of N. Nazarbayev.
It should be noted that in addition to celebrating the 25th anniversary of independence this year, Almaty celebrates its personal holiday - the 1000th anniversary.
creation and development of housing cluster by akimat of the region together with ZhZHB JSC and the Chamber of Entrepreneurship of Aktobe region.
It should be noted that the training of employees on open government portals takes place within the framework of the program "Effective mechanisms of public administration and guarantees of accountability and transparency in the Republic of Kazakhstan" of the National Commission for Modernization and non-governmental organizations.
Also, as M.Kazbekova noted, today Kazakhstan is an example for the CIS countries on gender policy.
Following the talks, it was agreed that Romanian businessmen will organize a number of trade missions in Kazakhstan next year.
attracting transnational companies to the manufacturing sector, Kazakhstan's entry into the world market, attracting investors to the output of milk and dairy products, as well as meat production and processing, "the minister said.
All events held with the union are aimed at preserving ethnic integrity and make a good contribution to the inter-ethnic situation and the formation of a common Kazakh culture in interfaith cooperation.
Therefore, the female community should make every effort to contribute to the development of the Nұrly zhol program, small and medium-sized business development programs, and industrial programs of the state.
this memorandum will allow the plant to improve the qualifications of its specialists, increase additional opportunities in the development and conduct of laboratory studies in various fields, "said the senior instructor of the blacksmiths.
members of the executive committee heard reports on the preparation of the Antalya 2016 exhibition, the capital 2017, Beijing 2019 and Dubai 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
ministry in the framework of the meeting e. Together with the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, federico mogherini moderated a round table on the early entry into force of hawks of states that have not taken this step in the past twenty years.
Zhandar Seikhmetovna Aytzhanova was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Swiss Confederation, acting as Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United Nations Office and other international organizations in Geneva (Switzerland), dismissed from the post of Minister for Economic Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
This was announced by Deputy Akim of East Kazakhstan region.
in Egypt, the pharmaceutical industry is very well developed. egypt developed sphere of pharmaceutics very well .
mostly for hearing impaired people.
we own new knowledge, experience, companies that will be here.
for example, I believe that the burden on our children is too high.
In addition, the Minister noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries during the work of the ambassador.
I urge all Kazakhstanis, civil society forces to support the holding of early elections of deputies to the Majilis. i call on all kazakhstanis , all civil powers of our society to support the statement of the deputies to hold snap elections in the majilis of the parliament of the country .
a look from Russia "(the book includes essays by leading Russian publicists, observers, international correspondents, as well as the words and thoughts of major politicians dedicated to Nursultan Nazarbayev)," by whom is the nuclear bell ringing? " (book on Head of State initiatives in the field of global nuclear security), "leadership perspectives"
As a result, the main prize of the festival was received by the Turkestan dauren minsharipov, the Shymkent dastan shametov in 1st place, the sadibekov in 2nd place, the kendebai kabardals in 3rd place, the ergeshbay tiger (Baidibek district) in 3rd place, and the sadibekov kozhabek in 2nd place.
It should be noted that the connection of industrial-innovative projects is constantly carried out.
Kazakhstan has made a unique contribution to building a model of interethnic relations, the diplomat said.
now there is a new situation, new tests, and not only parliament, we must work with double strength.
dear Kazakhstanis! dear citizens of kazakhstan , i would like to congratulate you on the day of gratitude !
The event was attended by Russian scientists and experts, professors and teachers of Moscow universities, Kazakh students, graduate students and doctoral students and fellows of the Future program, the press service of the Russian Embassy in Kazakhstan reports.
wheat 13.7 million tons, barley 2.7mn. tons, oilseeds more than 1.5 million tons.
Recall that from November 20 to 29 of this year, the world weightlifting championship among adults and women was held in American Houston.
During negotiations with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Australia, the parties discussed the state of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Australia and the prospects for further development, simplification of the visa regime and the possibility of opening the Australian Consulate General in Kazakhstan.
Winners and participants of competitions in the Russian Federation will be determined in June of this year.
I have a duty to communicate with foreign colleagues, representatives of political organizations and experts. because of my work i communicate with my foreign colleagues , representatives of think tanks , experts from different countries .
I think that the article of the head of state is an important plan for achieving new goals, is a new stage in the prosperity of the country.
these are leading specialists of the republican clinic, experienced, scientific, highly qualified specialists.
issues of gas supply in the southern regions of Kazakhstan, infrastructure development and optimization of activities in the field of energy transport were also discussed.
The adopted document will allow the two states to develop mutual cooperation in combating crime, protecting human rights and freedoms, countering organized crime, terrorism, extremism, corruption, illicit trafficking in weapons, narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, crimes in the economic sphere and in the field of information technology, to expand bilateral partnership on all key aspects of legal integration.
The Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan arrived for the purpose of negotiations with the heads of foreign affairs and energy departments, as well as with the largest energy companies in the country.
For a week we visited the objects of the universiade.
The concert will be attended by the Astana Opera Chamber Orchestra, headed by an honored figure of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the Minister, the presentation of domestic culture within the expo will be the main measure in the formation of the international image of Kazakhstan.
According to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports of Thailand, the opening of new directions in Kazakhstan confirms the dynamic development of relations between the two countries, and tourism, as part of the people's diplomat, remains the foundation between the two countries.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister also discussed bilateral issues with the EU High Representative, including the implementation of the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu, signed in December 2015.
you see what is happening in the world economy, the global world. you see what 's going on in the global economy and the world .
- How was the archaeological study of the Botai area?
representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Social Protection of Kazakhstan together with specialists of the population service center held consultations on socially important issues of the region.
there was no global crisis. the crisis is continuing and a new wave is inevitable .
He also expressed a desire to study the experience of Kazakhstan in this area and noted that in the future he will send a group of experts to Kazakhstan to carry out relevant work.
now the silk road through China and Kazakhstan will receive a certain part of these cargoes to other states.
Parliamentary elections in Estonia were held last year and about a third of voters voted via the Internet. in estonia , the parliamentary elections were held last year , and about a third part of voters voted through the internet .
this is the basis of harmony in our society - two pillars of the spiritual world.
residents of the Baiginsky district use state support measures.
including housing built by state enterprises and organizations amounted to 1.45 million square meters, which is 16.3% of the number of commissioned in the republic. including the enterprises and organizations of state ownership commissioned 1.45 million square meters of housing , which was 16.3 % of the total volume of housing construction in the country .
f.y.pshirer noted that Bavarian infrastructure and industry are one of the leaders in the highly developed German economy.
provided that the contribution of the Housing and Communal Services is not compensated: the contribution is provided for housing, preliminary housing and intermediate housing loans granted before August 18, 2015; Agreement on the purchase and sale of housing on the date of investing money or a lease agreement with subsequent redemption within the framework of the state program of housing construction in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2008-2010, approved by Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of August 20, 2007 No. 383, within the framework of the regional development program until 2020, regional housing programs, approved by Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of June 28, 2014 No. 728; if no additional agreement is signed within the specified period, except in cases provided by internal documents of the bank.
A. Yessimov noted that the expo is the largest and most international project in Kazakhstan.
- Pavlodar is a powerful industrial center of Kazakhstan.
in the future, Kazakhstan plans to present Almaty at the Central Asian international hub. "
According to the results of the assessment of the level of services among ten enterprises of the tourism industry, the title "golden partner of the city of Astana" was awarded to the hotels "soluxe hotel astana," "radisson hotel astana," the hotel "astana marriott" and the restaurant "korean house."
that is, there is reason to say that there is a dendence of growth.
improving the quality of education in kindergartens. we need to raise the quality of teaching in kindergartens .
deputies were fully sympathetic to this decision. the mps came down to the point with the full understanding .
during the meeting and. Adyrbekov expressed confidence that this visit will give a new impetus to the interaction between the parliaments of the two countries, as well as contribute to fruitful cooperation between the delegations of Kazakhstan and Germany in the framework of vaccinations and ecu.
Through the ceremony, festive events started throughout the country.
The keys to the new 45-apartment building were received by young families, medical workers, teachers, civil servants, large families.
work on the production of spare parts in the field is very slow. work in the direction of localization is extremely slow .
Until the age of 29, 195 citizens were employed (in 2014 - 64 people, in 2015 - 131 people), "said B. rysmendiev.
this is a reflection of the overall economic situation.
The document prepared by IVF contains the level of the financial budget of the structure and agricultural industry, the application of the dynamics of the direction of activity, investment development.
The contest "Safe Environment - 2016" will unite the best representatives of the defense forces of the ridges in a number of countries.
In turn, it is aimed at the development of the economy, education, high technology, health care, the environment, urban development and human capital management in the market, "the report said.
we are convinced that every Kazakhstani is part of society.
Sergey Kistin, General Director of Kamaz Engineering JSC, was awarded the medal "For Valiant Labor," a 5-bit electric welder of Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant JSC, an honorary certificate of Yuri Kulaev.
The head of state noted that thanks to the support of the Kazakhstani people, the Soviet Semipalatinsk nuclear test site was closed, after which the country abandoned all nuclear weapons on its territory.
The regional comprehensive plan for the development of trilingualism for 2016-2019 was approved.
According to the Governor's Office, Berdybek Saparbayev spoke about the projects being implemented and the situation in the agro-industrial complex of the region.
As the head of state noted, attracting investment is a key factor in the development of the economy.
I want to remind you that Escpo is a world platform, and all countries can openly show their best achievements. i want to remind that the expo is a global marketplace , where all countries can openly show their best achievements .
higher education enrolment is 48.4 per cent.
- Dear Andrew, how do your churches celebrate Christmas?
a politically important opening for us is the early holding of elections of deputies to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels. the initiative of the deputies of the parliament on dissolution and snap elections in the majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels was the important political news .
and in the face of such a global crisis, Kazakhstan is looking forward to the future with confidence.
the introduction of a modern high-tech installation will reduce the time by 3 times and bring production to 250 million units per year.
Kazakhstan is one of the leaders in camel milk production.
we were surprised at what we witnessed during the election. we have already observed elections in kazakhstan , and this time we see a good progress .
In his speech, the senator noted the priority of integration for the EAEU member states and drew attention to the significant economic potential of this regional association.
74 people work at the plant, of which 56 work in production.
Kazakh delegation headed by Deputy Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan talgat .lastayev and Deputy President of Air Astana Airlines erbol .sopanova. held talks with the Iranian aircraft industry organization on the opening of direct flights between Tehran and the capital in the near future.
also Nursultan Nazarbayev and e. Boniz discussed aspects of the participation of American companies in the country's energy sector, plans to expand the use of green energy in Kazakhstan, the cost of producing new technologies in nuclear energy and energy from renewable energy sources.
how safe is it in environmental review? "the senator asked the question.
We think that the elections will be held according to the law, "said the deputy chairman of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Armenia.
At the same time, according to the expert, in the future our republic will become a very interesting zone for foreign investment, that is, it will get the opportunity for additional development.
To develop the local capital market, the center, together with a strategic partner among the leading world exchanges, is working to form a high-tech exchange infrastructure of akhko that meets world standards.
of which: in Almaty region - 23.22%, in Akmola region - 20.89%, in Aktobe region - 14.31%, in Atyrau region - 11.88%, in West Kazakhstan region - 10.75%
oil companies of the region were forced to optimize the costs of technical and service services.
On September 28 of this year, in the 70th anniversary debate of the UN General Assembly, President Nursultan Nazarbayev made a proposal "to direct the goal of humanity in the 21st century towards a peaceful renunciation of nuclear weapons."
Today Kazakhstan has become a full-fledged development area.
stimulants of social modernization
now equipping the technical part of the office. there will be a hotline for children .
interregional migrants account for 42.6 per cent of the total number of domestic migrants in the country.
Considering the importance of your achievements in agriculture, we intend to contribute to the further development of Kazakhstan.
photo: enu.kz
photo: reu.uz
The head of the ecu/diakb mission, in turn, expressed gratitude for the organization of the meeting by the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as for the assistance and cooperation provided.
According to the deputy chairman, to date, 51 states and 14 major international organizations will officially take part in the exhibition.
the complex geoeconomic and geopolitical situation in the world is accompanied by an increase in international tension, the emergence of new hotbeds of conflict, and an increase in the terrorist threat.
To create transport in the city of Kostanay, a project will be implemented to assemble jac, iveco cars based on the saryarkaavtropol.
it is similar to the method of multiculturalization in Europe.
therefore, we must all unite and help each other.
the new bill introduced restrictions on the collection of benefits and social benefits.
in connection with the transportation of the potential of a rich mineral resource base, security in the region has great potential for the mining and chemical industries, metallurgy and agriculture, and the development of basic resources.
raising the shadow of the blue flag is a concern for young people who adhere to tomorrow in Kazakhstan, "he said.
These testimonies indicate incorrect coordination of state and local executive bodies in ensuring a shortage of specialists, "said a member of the Accounts Committee for monitoring the implementation of the republican budget of February.
we can make effective use of our cooperation and create synergies.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstan has been cooperating with the International Monetary Fund since the first days of its independence.
Vladimir Putin noted that the strategic partnership between the two countries is systematically developing, despite the difficulties in the global economy.
in addition, he noted the improvement of transport infrastructure.
The Norwegian ambassador to Kazakhstan said that his country was interested in cooperation with Aktobe in the oil and gas and mining sectors.
to perform this action, "a clear competitive process based on the principle of meritocracy is introduced."
It is noted that in the region it is planned to open 20 reception regional and city public headquarters.
in the regional context, the highest wage was set in Atyrau region - 257.2 thousand tenge, which is almost 1.9 times higher than the average republican indicator.
he also spoke about the assistance provided to veterans.
rain. "
we are the western region of Kazakhstan.
in our case, the signing of the memorandum will confirm the start of work. in our case , the signing of the memorandum has strengthened the job .
To date, more than 400 vacancies from 46 employers in the following specialties are presented at the job fair: engineers, doctors, teachers, informants, milling workers, in the service sector - cashiers, cooks, managers, seamstresses, etc.
At the opening ceremony, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the UAR Timur Kaliev praised the tour of Kazakh artists as a "historical event."
in addition, a house-building plant with a capacity of 50 thousand square meters. m per year LLP "House-building plant" will be launched.
It should be noted that according to step 4 of the Plan of the Nation "100 specific steps" it is provided for the approval of a trial period according to the formula 3 + 3, taking into account foreign experience.
According to the authors, the fall in oil prices affected central Asia and Transcaucasian countries.
we are working on the wide-scale modernization of all public, public and private institutions on the principles of a society of universal labor, high social responsibility, targeted assistance to the most vulnerable generations of the population.
The anti-crisis fund will be transformed into the Eurasian Stabilization and Development Fund. the anti-crisis fund was renamed the eurasian fund for stabilization and development .
our people have never lived at this level.
leaving the programme unchanged, if the school week is reduced, the school week will last until the end of June.
In the next 2 years, we plan to increase it to $100 million.
all economic issues must be resolved at once.
this is 30% more than in 2014.
According to zh. Abdiyev, the exact number of members of the supreme judicial council is not provided, since the decision on whom and in what number to leave is made by the President of Kazakhstan.
The sides expressed appreciation for the results of the meeting and the exchange of views, noting the need to strengthen and increase cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
Speaking about the international threats of our time, B. Izmukhambetov expressed confidence that the international conference "Religion against Lancasticism," held in the capital, in which K. muttonen takes part, will create the conditions for uniting efforts against this threat.
The committee is ready to take this bill into work and prepare a conclusion for it, "said the chairman of the committee on international affairs, defense and security of the maulen ashimbayev.
On behalf of the head of state in mid-March, the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development will be completed.	also , the minister added that in mid-march the audit of the state program of industrial-innovative development will be completed .	0,95
The conference at the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi was also attended by Mayor of Almaty b.b. Aybek, member of the Senate of Parliament, Chairman of the Writers' Union of Kazakhstan, President of the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, academician m.zhurin.	it was also attended by mayor of almaty baurzhan baibek , senate deputy , chairman of the union of writers of kazakhstan n. orazalin , president of the national academy of sciences , academician m. zhurinov , science , education and culture , representatives of the general public .	0,95
The document opens up new opportunities for solving current challenges of bilateral cooperation, including in the agricultural-food sphere, agricultural development, and in the field of food security.	the document opens up new opportunities for bilateral cooperation in the agro-food sector , the development of agriculture , addressing the pressing challenges in food safety .	0,95
I, as rector, want investments in science to continue.
this was one of the reasons for the adoption of this law.
on its basis is economic restructuring.
a.zhaksybekov reported to the Head of State on the socio-economic development of the capital, the implementation of the main state programs and plans for the coming period.
these projects are aimed at monitoring, analysis and visualization of important production and financial indicators of the holding's activity.
By this time, I had already familiarized myself with his election work. during my time here i had time to get acquainted with the preparatory work for the holding of these elections .
The press conference will be attended by the chairman of the board of sk-pharmacy LLP nurzhan alibayev, deputy chairman of the board of sk-pharmacy maxim kasatkin LLP, executive director of sk-pharmacy sanzhar orals LLP.
Earlier, investment projects worth 16.3 billion were implemented in the field of agriculture. Tenge.
It is worth noting that two independent commissions have been formed as part of the judges - qualification and disciplinary.
This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence.
All persons from the party lists were checked in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said B. Meldeshev.
in the near future we plan to open regional offices in Frankfurt and Singapore, "said Dr. Razbekuly.
note that the party "Nұr Otan" nominated many athletes and actors, which speaks of complete democracy in our country.
then he surrenders the object to communal property.
a new system of targeted social assistance. the fifth reform enhances public accountability .
we are seeing a significant decrease in fluctuations in the exchange rate of the national currency and its strengthening by 1.6%, "said the chairman of the National Bank.
they offered to return observer status. they have requested to withdraw its observer status .
Kazakhstan completed the construction of the Western European-Western Chinese highway.
for us, cooperation with such brands is not only an influx of investment, but also a transfer of technology and this encourages better improvement of production, "he said.
- these are joyful indicators, which are the result of the constructive work of the state, primarily the Governor's Office of the city.
The Nұr Otan Party begins a movement of activists.
The Championship of Kazakhstan in cross-country skiing among disabled athletes takes place in the North Kazakhstan region two years in a row. kazakhstan ski race cup among disabled athletes being held for the second year in north kazakhstan region .
The head of the region congratulated the residents and guests of the city on the holiday "World. XXI century. "
From 2014 to 2016, there was a decrease in prices at production and in general. in the period from 2014 to 2016 there was a decline in production and price offers .
in particular, economic, environmental aspects and biological effectiveness of biodiversity were considered, the press service of agriculture reports.
79 investment projects in the amount of 71.5 billion tenge were approved by the decision of the regional coordinating council.
For explanation of the national idea "The m g_l_k Ate" in Aktobe there arrived deputies of Mazhilis of parliament of RK: sauytbek abdrakhman, Sergei Simonov, Denmark of an espayev, mukhtar Armand, asylbek smagul, kuraken and also the director of the department of central office of Nur Otan party, reported in the Relevant Information center.
This statement was adopted during the participation of the head of state in the summit on nuclear security, which was held today in Washington.
The head of the diak thanked the Kazakh authorities for the qualified and result-oriented cooperation, noting the mission's intention to conduct monitoring based solely on data.
Of course, we support the initiative to dissolve the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and early elections. of course , we support the initiative of the deputies of the majilis on the dissolution and holding snap elections .
Specialists will be selected for personnel experience. the knowledge and experience are priority criteria .
the cost of the ferroalloy plant amounted to $253.2 million.
The participants of the session are introduced to the latest changes in the antimonopoly legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to bring it into line with OECD standards and best international practice.
This year 120 projects were implemented, the rest will be implemented in the next three years, "the minister said.
elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to the Majilis of Parliament: Abdrahmanov Abdrahmanuls; bozhko vladimir karpovich; Zhanadildaeva natalia vasilievna; who is the affair of Uhenovich; Mikaelyanskaya narina Hamletovna; muradov ahmet seidarakhmanovich; nurum jaimard.
At a meeting in Frankfurt am Main of the largest European continental financial center, kmbets held bilateral talks with a number of international financial organizations and large garden holdings, members of the board of the European central bank, members of the German Bundensbank karl-ludwig and co-chairman of deutsche bank ag bank yorg fitchen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1979.
agreements have been reached on this issue, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Therefore, I think that early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels are expedient.
In addition, according to him, Kazavtodor will attract loans from the Eximbank of the People's Republic of China in the amount of 2.6 billion US dollars.
now more than 25 projects are being implemented with large national companies, and in general more than 200 projects with the participation of small and medium-sized investors, and they are very important for us, "the minister said.
proposals for improving operational work, improving the efficiency of the transportation process.
Holding elections to majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels will allow Kazakhstanis to unite. i think that early elections will contribute to the unity of all kazakhstanis .
To date, the length of existing roads in the Aktobe region is 6,553 km, of which 1894 km have republican, 1057 km - regional and 3602 km - regional significance.
the rank of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is especially high.	this was announced by nursultan nazarbayev ,  - she said .
- Chairman of the branch of the party, commercial director of the New Gas Base LLP, love of zhutaev;
The parties are confident that this agreement will give a special impetus to the strengthening of bilateral and multilateral ties between the peoples of Kazakhstan and the EU in the socio-economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as.
we have all the resources and opportunities to survive the crisis, to win, "said the head of state.
I believe that N. Nazarbayev is the right decision, called for state participation in any sphere, "the expert said.
in general, following the visit, specific agreements were reached on conducting expert negotiations in the near future on a number of practical issues in the trade, economic, energy and investment spheres, as well as meetings of the bilateral working group on the development of trade and economic cooperation in anticipation of the visit of the head of state to Iran.
Governor of Almaty region Ermaganbet Bulekpayev congratulated the women on the upcoming holiday and wished them and their children health, happiness and all the best.
Kezhakhmetov Bekat Bekirovich was relieved of the post of deputy chairman of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I wish all Kazakhstanis and people gathered here.
At the enlarged government meeting, the head of state instructed to strengthen the construction sector of the economy through a program of support for private developers. during the expanded meeting of the government of kazakhstan the president instructed to strengthen the construction sector of the economy through a program of support for private developers considering the challenging difficult economic situation .
graduated from Kazakh State University.
also in demand is the payment service egov, through which you can pay taxes, fines, utilities, communication services, etc.
in this competition, in addition to appearance, physical preparation, endurance and readiness to perform the tasks are evaluated.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan together with the joint-stock company Astana Expo-2017 developed a comprehensive program that includes cultural and entertainment events that reflect the history, culture and traditions of Kazakhstan.
thanks to the introduction of new technologies, the economic effect in the amount of 16.8 million tenge has been achieved.
In addition, this year we plan to complete the reconstruction of Petropavlovsk airport, "said E. Sultanov.
the exposition is an indicator of the history of tenge as one of the symbols of independence of Kazakhstan.
low world oil prices remain this year. this year , the world oil prices are low .
training in the specialty "radio electronics and engineering in military affairs" has begun at the Military Engineering Institute of Radio Electronics and Communications.
the cost of grain crops in Kazakhstan is competitive.
improving the format of integration of participants in bilateral investment cooperation, establishing contacts between the business circles of the two countries to create dialogue platforms and create new joint ventures that require the Kazakh and Russian business environment.
each sergeant must be a true professional specialist in military service, "says the headquarters sergeant of the Zhubanysh.
year-round control. and then , we will continue to maintain supervision .
Currently, Kazakhstan has developed a package of documents on accession to the World Trade Organization.
Our main goal is joint work aimed at implementing the tasks set by the president.
At the end of the meeting, the Secretary of State expressed confidence that representatives of the creative intelligentsia will take an active part in the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," in the festive events held within the framework of the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
After all, Almaty should be environmentally friendly, beautiful, sporting, convenient and modern city.
Therefore, we decided to create working groups on transport and logistics, "he said.
Kazakhstan is one of the world leaders in grain export.
reduces investment costs and tariff pressures.
In his speech, the Kazakh diplomat noted that Kazakhstan represents the method of nuclear disarmament proposed by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev. XXI century, "the Foreign Ministry said.
the honorary consul of Kazakhstan, the former Minister of Ecology, the Romanian entrepreneur Peter Lifichiu was appointed its leader.
On the eve of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, among those who received tickets from the first deputy chairman of the party - an outstanding representative of our national poetry, honored worker of Kazakhstan, supporter of Aytysk art, famous poet, international. winner of the alash prize serik aksungkarula, young poet, Laureate of the Daryn State Youth Prize, master of sports, master of sports - one of the best football players in Kazakhstan David Loria, Winner of the camel baluan competition zhumanazar erstan, honored coach of the Republic of Kazakhstan nurlan kerimbayev, pop star Marjana arapbaeva, k. Kuananbaev (capital) actor, winner of the prize of the Youth Union of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurken Uteuilov, was a confidant of the president in the 2015 elections, general director of global eagles LLP Branch of the national TV channel "Kazakhstan" in the South Kazakhstan region - general director of the TV channel "Kazakhstan-shymkent" editor-presenter of the creative association of the national TV channel.
firstly, at the suggestion of k.tokeav. parliamentarians should strengthen legal resistance to international terrorism, which will become a common enemy of all peoples and does not recognize borders, national sovereignty, culture and traditions.
they are trained in marketing.
The Polish side highly appreciated the stable economic development of Kazakhstan, the implementation of systemic reforms and interaction with European and international financial and economic structures, noting that a high-level government delegation will take part in the Astana Economic Forum.
N.Nazarbayev formulated the rules on the latest catastrophe, especially the situation in Fukushima, proposed a peaceful energy discipline that serves to strengthen security in nuclear production.
63,124 objects and securities worth 500.5 billion tenge were legalized.
It is necessary to strengthen work to reduce administrative barriers to business in the capital.
save two or three years on the construction of this facility.
an increase in the sown area of ​ ​ oilseeds in Kazakhstan aroused interest among foreign investors. the increase of the acreage for oilseeds in kazakhstan is interesting for the foreign investors .
we are now discussing the provision of ec 145 helicopters in Turkmenistan. now we discuss ec145 helicopters service in turkmenistan .
it is important for us that you come and evaluate our work. your visits and assessment of our work are of paramount importance .
163 billion tenge of investments will be attracted to these projects and 13 thousand permanent jobs will be created.
Recall that on January 1 of this year, the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Supreme Judicial Council" entered into force.
As you know, next year is the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence.
today it is necessary to consolidate all these tasks, "said E. Aymagambetov.
Taking into account the solemnity of the holiday on the upcoming New Year's Eve in order to ensure public order in the capital, members of the National Guard will fulfill their duty in an enhanced regime, "said Bulat Smagulov.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, the country that hit the crisis began to form a national oil fund.
The Prime Minister noted that the country pays special attention to the formation of a favorable investment climate and called on European business partners to implement joint projects in the field of agriculture using advanced technologies.
the economist Ivan miklos and the lucky sagintayev discussed tax administration in Kazakhstan, as well as the privatization process.
Among those who serve this train to the last stop are representatives of the Nұr Otan party, cultural and sports figures, medical workers, representatives of the social sphere and bank workers.
The purpose of the event is to unite Central Asia and Southeast Asia in the field of startups, assess the prospects for investments in Kazakhstan high-tech projects with potential for the Asian market.
Buudb's support contributed to the development goals of the whole of Kazakhstan, and we managed to eliminate poverty ahead of schedule. undp 's support contributed to the achievement of the millennium development goals by kazakhstan .
we will only succeed in this matter, "said A. Bashmakov.
this is three times the republican figure.
Kazakhstan is currently working with anti-crisis measures.
I often go to your countries.
this is the sixth plant in the world.
2016. natural population growth in January-March 2015. compared to January-March, it increased by 6.1 thousand people or 10.4% and amounted to 65.0 (58.9) thousand people.
if we are talking about competition, then as a rational regulation, the percentage of bankruptcy and the liquidation of inefficient companies should be accompanied. if we talk about competition , the percentage of bankruptcy and liquidation of inefficient companies has to go hand in hand with the effective regulation .
in addition to the above, Kazagro National Holding offers small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, together with regional grain cooperatives, to receive credit funds.
Today, most Iranian investors consider it right to cooperate with European countries.
Other important tasks include the development of a high-quality cultural program, the involvement of volunteers, as well as the subsequent use of the exhibition as an international financial center.
In addition, we helped in the counting of votes, "said A. Yan.
subsidy and guarantee measures to increase the value added of small and medium-sized businesses and achieve maximum efficiency are reoriented to an efficient enterprise. in order to increase the added value for the products of smes and maximize the effect the measures for subsidies and guarantees were redirected to an effective enterprise .
First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat demeuov spoke on united nations radio.
According to the Governor's Office, this issue was discussed by the organizer of the ant group during a trip to work with a scientific representative of the Mangistau Industrial Chamber.
In addition, in the period from 2011 to 2014, 267 residential buildings worth 2.3 billion tenge were repaired to modernize the housing complex.
they are surprised by the attitude of the head of state and state bodies to the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
among them are scientific databases, information and analytical centers, electronic libraries that allow users to receive information about the latest scientific achievements in the world and use them in professional and scientific activities.
photo: nkzu.kz
I spoke to the chairmen of all major trade union committees.
these are our long-standing subsidization partners, "said S. Shaukenov.
- Do you think it is possible to "export" your beautiful works abroad as Kazakh value, cultural and ethnic tolerance, desire for peace and creative work?
according to the results of the meeting, the order of the project is completed by the commission to prepare the procedures for its adoption in the established manner.
According to him, the adoption of this manifesto, Kazakhstan has made another important contribution to the strengthening of peace in the world.
According to the Expo 2017 secretariat, the Czech Republic became the 89th country to officially approve its participants.
The goal of the agreement, concluded in the capital on February 17, 2016, is to maintain macroeconomic and financial stability, ensure effective and quality economic growth due to stable income growth rates. the agreement between the republic of kazakhstan and the international bank for reconstruction and development ( ibrd ) in the amount of 1 billion us dollars was signed in line with the decree № 186 as of february 1 , 2016 .
According to parliamentarians, there is a railway "Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran" on the path of systemic development of economic ties.
yesterday completed the publication of the composition of polling stations, constituencies and electoral spaces at all levels. yesterday we completed the publication of information about the electoral districts , election commissions at all levels .
parliamentary elections are important in the form of a socio-political situation and a historical situation in the world, "said the professor.
During the meeting S. Kulagin paid tribute to the guest, spoke about the development of various sectors of the region, familiarized with industry, agro-industrial, industrial and social sphere of the region.
Our state pays great attention to small and medium-sized businesses.
This is beneficial for the population, "he said.
In South Kazakhstan region, preparations for elections to majilis and maslikhats of all levels are carried out according to the calendar plan of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan. preparations for the snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels in south kazakhstan region are held according to the schedule of the central election commission of kazakhstan .
our common task is to continue working to increase this indicator, "said S. Kulagin.
in terms of the factory production of men's shirts, spots, an increase in the range of women's and men's coats.
in my opinion, holding elections to the Majilis is a necessary step. in my opinion , the holding of elections in the majilis is a right decision .
among them are excerpts from the dzhambul dzhabayev ravine, works of southback, fussy, umbetal, idle azambayev, frosty betbaev.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also introduced the new prosecutor general, who has considerable experience in the prosecutor's system.
With the participation of Deputy Minister of Defense Nurlan Sauranbaev, a memorandum was signed on the transfer of technologies and equipment with norinco corp for the production of large-caliber ammunition.
signing of a general agreement on expanded cooperation and partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
Aktobe respondents selected the consumer protection department, the tax service, etc., "the report said.
According to the chairman of the board of the Kazagro holding Nurlybek Malelov, with holding companies, a state policy is being actively implemented to develop the entrepreneurial activity of agribusiness entities in the village.
During the subsequent meeting, an exchange of views was held on issues in the field of regulation of international trade from issues discussed in the framework of the multilateral negotiation process, which is important for Kazakhstan.
for example, the wage scale is being improved, "said T. Donakov.
In order to support their activity, the organizational and legal model was replaced by the RGCP, which, in turn, made it possible to earn money, "said the head of the department.
According to him, one of the 5 strategic areas is transport infrastructure.
by fulfilling the nation's plan, we expand the horizons of the era of the rise of our nation, take advantage of all the opportunities that we have received over the years of independence and have given us global development.
there is no threat in this.
the victory of the Nur Otan party expresses unlimited confidence in the head of state and supports his reform.
The government and parliament in this situation are working together, ready to take operational measures.
we had to create a new state from scratch, move from a planned administrative system to a market one, from totalitarianism to democracy.
The inadmissibility of this attitude on the part of state bodies, especially in educational institutions, to state symbols. such an attitude to the state symbols by the public authorities is unacceptable , especially when it comes to the education facilities .
As M.Pshembayev noted, during 2012-2014, during the first five-year period of forced industrialization, a good basis for further growth was created in the country.
According to him, recently there has been a significant deterioration in the situation in the world economy, the crisis has developed in all directions, which has affected not only developing, but also developed countries.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today the country is a world leader in the extraction of uranium reserves and their ore, and is also one of the main exporters of these products.
thirdly, we implement the national plan - 100 specific projects that implement 5 institutional reforms. third , we have started the implementation of the national plan .
we must learn to live in new conditions.
upon completion of training, all trainees are awarded the military rank of "reserve lieutenant" and they are automatically included in the mobilization reserve of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said the head of the Department of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
aa. the parties discussed practical issues of cooperation, including the implementation of the agreement on a bank of low-enriched uranium.
in addition, funds will be allocated for the implementation of a number of infrastructure projects, including improving the quality of life in rural settlements, completing the ferry crossing in the land port and modernizing the airport of the capital.
During the meeting, the interlocutors agreed to continue the inter-parliamentary dialogue at the level of chairmen, as well as to contribute to the work of the Kazakh-Emirati cooperation groups working in the legislative bodies of the two countries.
national cinema today oriented the country's unique historical and cultural heritage, historical events and the propaganda of prominent individuals. the national cinema today is aimed at promoting the unique historical and cultural heritage , historical events and prominent personalities .
In turn, we will make every effort to ensure that this issue is raised at the level of the national commission. " Syzdykova.
Acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons;
from this year we began a new tariff policy, based on world practice. the new tariff policy was launched on january 1 , 2015 .
we took into account that the events organized by the Central Election Commission take place in accordance with the permanent electoral legislation, "said E. Sloboda.
Currently, several large projects are being implemented within the framework of the industrial and innovative development program.
It is important that you arrived earlier than representatives of the Dutch business community, "the head of state said.
Note that currently 10% of all products are exported to countries near and far abroad, and the main buyers are countries of the world and Europe.
The professor will also participate and act as one of the key speakers of the global conference "Professional State Apparatus for the Successful Implementation of Institutional Reforms," which will be held on May 26, 2016 as part of the Astana Economic Forum.
One of the main tasks of the judiciary is to participate in the creation of national legislation. one of the main tasks is to participate in the formation of the national legislation .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, on Monday the deputy akim of Pavlodar region of turgans and the minister of economy of lower Saxony walter hirche, the head of Hanoverian tpp in the scar choir, the mayor of Hanover thomas herman, representatives of business circles of lower Saxony took part.
Poland is not only a partnership for Kazakhstan, but in general in the center - eastern Europe.
we launched a special program to provide business advice and financing for women-led enterprises.
the project is planned to be launched in several stages.
Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan fulfilled its task. actually , the majilis has fulfilled its mission .
proof of this is the creation of new cultural facilities, an increase in wages of workers in this area since the beginning of the year.
As the pilot-cosmonaut noted, the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev had a significant influence on the fate of the country.
"Yesterday we met with management of university games.
The head of the city emphasized the expansion of public-private partnerships, for example, the transfer of social facilities - clinics, hospitals and kindergartens to trust management.
And it would be right, "said the deputy.
During the meeting, the senator noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of relations with Romania, which is an important partner of eastern Europe and the Balkans.
In 2016, it is planned to create 400 jobs in the field of transport infrastructure, and in general, enterprises plan to create 60 thousand jobs, "he said.
the bear appeared about four thousand years ago.
our goal is to control certain shortcomings and control election organizations, "said the Minister of Finance.
this has intensified public debate and debate.
this is an economic crisis and currently contributes to the external and internal market, as well as a series of geopolitical events and its outskirts in our region.
11,224,2 million tenge was spent, which is 99.9%.
- thanks for the interview
inefficient and "formal" costs.
In addition, the eo project will assist the central and local executive bodies on topical issues and will contribute to improving public administration, "said J. Sharabasov.
According to him, to date, 147 enterprises are operating and more than 100 projects are being implemented.
we have been honoured in this confusing period.
we are interested in developing cooperation in this area.
relatively, it seems to me that campaign companies are calm this time. everything is learned in comparison , and it seemed to me that the election campaign is held quietly this time .
all this is connected with the desire for ethnic, national, interreligious interaction and territorial values.
he will also assist each medical organization in creating its drug form, proper budget planning depending on drug prices and guidelines, "he said.
Increased economic potential, taking into account current growth rates.
gross agricultural products increased from 40.4 billion tenge in 2012 to 45.6 billion tenge in 2014. the total volume of agricultural production grew by kzt 45.6 billion in 2014 .
- Director of the car-building plant of Akmola region, chairman of the branch of the party in Astana, askar smagulov;
Is there a full understanding with public authorities?
dynamic economic growth over the years has enabled us to pursue active social policies and to improve people's quality of life at times.
fifth - Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization.
this corresponds to the strategic steps of the President of Kazakhstan.
at the same time, he noted, "these changes mainly include the development of standards in the water sphere, the principles of extended extractive responsibility, standards, economic requirements for waste management, renewable energy sources and the development of environmental monitoring of the Caspian Sea."
According to him, for a large-scale exhibition, the issues of using objects after the EXPO are important.
at the IV session of the extraordinary convocation of the city maslikhat, the head of the department of economics and budget planning of the city called the draft budget socially justified and balanced.
For four years now, a bilateral agreement on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation has been in force between the capital and the Penza region.
holding meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels is very expedient, this is a saving of funds, "he said.
association of credit associations is established in all spheres of its activity in order to protect the interests of credit associations, provide financial means, protect their interests in the state, legislative and other spheres.
- Director of the sturgeon fish breeding plant of Gilmansarsemaliyev;
According to the Vice Minister, the development center of the State Housing and Communal Services "Kazakhstan Space Center" has been identified, which carries out the examination and evaluation of state investment projects.
in addition, in order to ensure transport accessibility, it is planned to establish convenient and constantly operating air links between the capital and the world's leading financial centers.
According to him, holding early elections to the lower house of parliament will give a new impetus to the development of the country.
we provided for the introduction of labeling of inexpensive goods.
first of all, this is the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
During the business trip, the Kazakh side visited the Institute for the Study of Iranian Agriculture and the large production complex "hevco" for the production of milk and dairy products.
This year, 1902 applications were submitted for participation in the program.
At the same time, Almaty region will organize cooperation in fruit and vegetable, zhambyl - dairy, aktobe - meat direction and oilseeds in the North Kazakhstan region.
at the first stage of the plan, teachers received test work.
they provide ballots to all constituencies.
On behalf of the parliamentary assembly of the European Council, I want to emphasize that in the future we will work on the development of a democratic institution in your country, "he said.
The Goqiang moon informed the senator about important issues of domestic political life and economic policy in China.
At the beginning of his speech, the head of state said that the world is facing new threats.
At the same time, according to him, if the elections were postponed until the end of the year, the deputies would always be on standby.
Recall that the upcoming Toast-2016 exhibition will be held in the capital from June 2 to 5.
the state in this matter is a legislator, a regulator, a click that shows in which direction it is necessary to train specialists. the autonomy ofuniversities - clear , transparent , democratic university , finances , choice ofpriorities , synchronization governance system .
we turn the museum into a center where people can fill their knowledge under favorable conditions, "said K. Aktaeva.
in his opinion, such an economic policy is the key to the sustainable development of the modern state.
A.rosso also said that about 150 Italian companies will take part in expo 2017.
but the war virus continues to exacerbate the international situation.
Thanks to the financing of the republican and regional budgets, the construction of a kindergarten for 280 places in the 7th microdistrict was completed.
The integration capacity of the eeo, implemented together with the mistake of the project "economic belt of the great silk road" strengthen the position of an important business partnership of Kazakhstan in the Eurasian hub.
According to judicial representatives, for the 1 quarter of this year, a 219 of cases were considered, including 142 criminal cases and 77 civil cases in mediation.
this will affect domestic political processes.
new high-speed complexes are installed on the streets of the city as part of the Safe City project.
According to him, in 2015 the head of state made 13 visits.
Within the framework of the program, a tour of visits to the capital and expo-2017 will be presented, the national company said.
To train practitioners, the plant has prepared a training paligon, the paligon is equipped with all the necessary equipment, "said L. Pak.
In the field of human resources management, the development of leading top management qualities, a culture of active training and self-development of fund companies will be discussed, "Samruk-kazyna reported.
The main organizer of this event is the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
this will ensure the stability of the labor market through projects for the development of local infrastructure and the improvement of settlements.
Currently, transport and logistics infrastructure is being actively built.
this congress is the beginning of a new medical activity in our country, "added and. Baidaulets.
Currently, it is used to achieve new scales and implement projects of the nation, "said the political scientist.
it is aimed at the "energy of the future."
Recall that the Zikstovo plant is one of the largest machine-building enterprises in northern Kazakhstan.
We highly appreciate the work of the deputies of the fifth convocation.
The solemn opening of the forum, dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the independence of Turkic-speaking states and the day of Turkic writing, was attended by heads of international organizations, diplomats, state and public figures, deputies, as well as prominent scientists.
The Ministry has been actively working to bring international standards into line with environmental legislation. the ministry conducted the active work on the harmonization of environmental legislation in a line with the international standards of the oecd member states .
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that representatives of various professions take part in this meeting.
Following the discussion, the head of the committee noted the need to hold a meeting of the headquarters and discuss issues related to the Paralympic.
many young people come as a candidate for deputy. younger candidates come .
rental housing is provided to young families in line with local executive bodies, employees of budgetary organizations, public servants, large families, families raising a disabled child, orphans left without parental care, incomplete families, and military personnel.
as a result, annual inflation does not exceed 8%.
they cover almost the entire southern hemisphere, including Antarctica, Latin American, African, Australian and ocean.
According to experts, the volume of trade in the region by 2020 will grow 1.5 times and amount to 1.2 trillion tenge, "he said.
all world scientists recognize that the horse was first trained in northern Kazakhstan 6 thousand years ago.
I think that Kazakhstan is trying to contribute to the world.
To measure the achievement of the goals of the Agribusiness Program 2020, 7 indicators are provided, of which 4 indicators have been achieved.
It is expected that during the meeting a number of issues of the Eurasian Economic Union will be considered.
The strongest teams of military-patriotic clubs of Kazakhstan gathered for the championship.
To date, about 117 thousand students in 63 schools are taught in three languages. nowadays the trilingual training is conducted at 117 schools .
funds from the local budget for the implementation of the long-term plan.
According to him, this issue has been repeatedly considered by Kazakh experts.
According to Aylay Myrzakhmetov, during the implementation of the mutual partnership, "ktzh" and "atameken" also agreed on the issues of attracting company employees and members of their families to small and medium-sized businesses.
today in the gymnasium there is a scientific society of students "erudite."
Asia is becoming the main platform of global international relations, and Kazakhstan is ready to play the role of a transit bridge between Europe and Asia, using its unique geographical position, the Deputy Prime Minister noted.
However, even if we participate for the first time, we will not do victory, "said Sergeant Rinat Sedykh, commander of the military unit 35804, about the features of service in the radiation, chemical and biological protection troops.
Head of the Department of Turkic Philology, Institute of Asian and African Countries, Moscow State University M.V. Lomonosova Dmitry Nasilov, a well-known scientist, public figure of Kazakhstan, as well as academician of the Uzbek Academy of Sciences, historian Akhmadali Askarov.
According to Minister of Energy and Infrastructure of the Republic of Kazakhstan Danil Ibraev, this is the first document in the Eurasian space, which forms unified and agreed methodological methods.
- Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the v convocation, President of the Union of Manufacturers of Building Materials, citizen of the Abildai;
The head of state noted that the most sought-after youth, which the country expects, gathered here.
extensive training will also be provided. " Nazarbayev.
most of the decisions were decided in favor of entrepreneurs, "he said.
we must have a sustainable development priority.
this will strengthen long-term economic ties, "he said.
the total cost of the project is estimated at 7.9 billion tenge.
I had the opportunity to visit different places of Kazakhstan.
now world markets are in decline. presently , the global markets experience tough times .
the organization of such a large-scale project in the capital is an initiative of the head of state.
after the newly disclosed historical data, the director of Alash comes to this conclusion.
Last year, the construction of 3 additional industrial zones was completed, this year it is planned to introduce another 5.
Teams that won silver and bronze received a ticket to the health camp, "the report said.
The head of the region instructed to submit a daily report on the implementation of all projects.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that relations between the two countries are allied.
- How do you assess the initiative of Nazarbayev to preserve peace and stability in the existing world?
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda, the parties noted the similarity of the positions of Kazakhstan and Lithuania on the main international and regional problems.
I also want to note the important role of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions - this is a very effective platform for ensuring interreligious global dialogue. "
dismantling ammunition on these types of equipment, demarcating gunpowders, fusing TNT, or, from obtaining ammunition to complete dismantling to receiving recyclable products sold later, and funds go to the state budget. these kinds of equipment are used for striping , gunpowder extraction , tritol smelting - the whole cycle - from getting ammunition to complete disassembly and disposal of the preparation of products which are further implemented , and the money goes to the budget of the state .
Which countries could be the next victim of "proxy wars" waged by global and regional powers?
it is necessary to explain innovations to citizens, "said N.Sagnalin.
he expressed confidence that the election results will contribute to the stability and prosperity of cooperating Kazakhstan, the continuation of economic reforms initiated by President Nursultan Nazarbayev. "
it should cover the nation and generate income for the state, so it should be applied as rationally as possible.
Recall that following the talks, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov and High Representative of the EU Federica Mogherini signed an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union.
in this regard, we call upon political parties and candidates participating in the elections, as well as their campaign headquarters and proxies, to fight honestly. in this regard , we call on all political parties , participating in the elections , the candidates and their campaign staffs , trustees to give a square deal .
During the meeting, projects of domestic enterprises were presented, which interested customers and led them to a discussion on optimizing and improving the quality of goods and services.
issues of rural and rural population are relevant for us, which are often discussed, "said A. Bektayev.
in addition, S. Shapiev noted that the work of the election process took place in accordance with rights and international standards.
firstly, on the camera, a clarified violation, and secondly, when compiling protocols by employees of the administrative service.
The chairman of the blackstone group and one of its founders, the Schwartzman, noted the importance of the decision to create ahko.
cooperation, exchange of experience, information, holding joint conferences and meetings.
legislative power is an important part of the implementation of the state's anti-crisis strategy, the foundation for the further development of the country, "S. Geroav said.
On election day, 43,735 local and international observers, agents and garden representatives were held at polling stations.
family - on the forum of eternal support of L. Suleimen "today family traditions among different nationalities and generations in our country contribute to the preservation of high moral values ​ ​ in society, strengthening marriage and family.
this is respect for the selfless work of the head of state.
if the president supports early parliamentary elections, persons of the new composition of the meeting should be able to represent the interests of the people. if the president supports the initiative of the majilismen to hold snap parliamentary elections , the new majilis should have people who represent people 's interests .
The amount of funds allocated for the implementation of the project will amount to 200-210 million euros.
During the state audit, 301.35 million tenge was restored and 217.4 million tenge was returned to the republican budget, "said a member of the Accounts Committee.
before the start of the event, the head of state examined a number of pavilions, on which weapons, military equipment of domestic and foreign manufacturers were presented.
According to M. Myrzagaliyev, "the work on replacing the Kashagan oil line is slightly ahead of schedule."
building the unity of the future nation - the basis of state policy and the unity of all branches of state power. creation of the nation of common future is the basis for the whole state policy and unity of all branches of government .
A feature of the project is that Shaanxi Province is located at the source of the silk road. the project is significant in that shanxi province is located at the beginning of the silk road .
The parties noted that Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan are opening up new and progressive opportunities for cooperation within the framework of the integration process.
Kazakhstan space visit "told the members of the commission about how the satellite will work and provide services.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed to continue and deepen cooperation between the tax commission and the World Bank on the website of the advisory committee on economic tax policy and administration, the statement said.
Entrepreneurs who are not included in the list of priority sectors of the economy to participate in existing state programs can participate in the new program.
in this case, the importance of ethics will increase, which will lead to the strengthening of civil society, "he said.
I go to many events related to kha, I like the attitude of all ethnic groups towards each other. i often visit different activities of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , and i see the ethnic groups relate to each other as a family .
577 residential objects worth 1,378.3 million tenge and 1,516 non-residential objects worth 2,815.0 million tenge.
According to him, since the beginning of the work of the specialized PSC since December 2015, 1,808 vehicles have been issued, 7.5 technical means have been registered and re-registered.
Gulshara abdykalikova also visited reading rooms, got acquainted with the work of foreign book corners of Turkey, Iran, Pakistan, India, Russia.
we have close cooperation in the field of agriculture, transport and light industry. we have a close cooperation in agriculture , transport structure , in light industry .
The Office of the International Organization will provide Member States with expertise and technical innovations in various aspects of effective agriculture, rural development, food security and biotechnology development.
the main objectives of fiscal policy are austerity, improved efficiency of public expenditure and rational use of the national fund. in this regard , the new draft concept of the national fund activities and the budget code will be developed .
I want to note that the state program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan does not require specialties with higher education, but requires middle-class engineers and a highly skilled labor force.
It was important for us to see the entrepreneurship and political maturity of Kazakh voters, "V. Vasilev said.
accordingly, Kazakhstan, as a deeply integrated country in world politics, may suffer from global trends, "said P. Azantsev.
The agreement was concluded in July 2015 in the capital.
A draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget for 2016-2018" has been submitted to your consideration, the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
4 of them last year at the Alabino training ground represented the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the army international games-2015.
according to him, the Borovoe Hotel offers an affordable price.
relevant laws, including the new Code of Civil Procedure, had recently been adopted by Parliament.
contracts for a large volume have been signed, "said V. Lossertales.
they-culture, education, religious studies, national economy, etc., supporting the idea of ​ ​ the head of state, are engaged in propaganda work of kha, contribute to the creation of such long-term goals as joining 30 developed countries, the "bright way," patriotic thought, the way to the future, "eternal country."
The goal of the championship is to increase the status of the profession, professional skills of students and young specialists, support the creative abilities and interests of students, modernize skills and approaches to work and determine a participant in the republican competition.
the First Deputy Prime Minister also held talks with Nobel Prize winner Christopher Pissarides, economist Arthur Laffer, Professor Dr. Klaus Mangold.
we must speak honestly and honestly in this regard.
the Government and Parliament in this case need to work together and take decisions quickly.
The average republican indicator per capita in the region exceeded 1.2 times and amounted to 1202.0 thousand tenge, "the Governor of the region said.
He expressed gratitude to the Mexican side for supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, and also touched upon the issues of Mexican participation in the Expo 2017 exhibition in Astana, intensifying contacts at the highest level between the two countries.
but I am sure that this agreement will give a significant impetus to the further expansion and deepening of our economic cooperation, "the FM concluded.
along the way, we were delighted with the spirit of our ancestors.
in this regard, in connection with the new medical insurance system being introduced in the republic, "medical insurance will not be received by self-employed."
he stressed that the composition of the commission, consisting of deputies of both chambers, members of the government, leaders of all political parties, representatives of the agrarian sector, scientists and civil activists, represents the entire spectrum of public opinion on land issues.
The ceremony was attended by the head of the European Union representative office in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Trajan Hristea, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of France to the Republic of Kazakhstan Francis Etienne, Chairman of the Managing Committee of the regional hub in the field of public service in the capital alikhan baimen and Rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan BolBolBolatbek abdrasilov.
Recall that at a government meeting, an anti-crisis plan for 2016-2018 was adopted.
In general, to date, 83390.924 hectares of land have been returned to state ownership.
Johnny Kramer's attention was presented with investment projects that could arouse interest among German businessmen.
therefore, it seems advisable to agree to Magate's proposal related to the fact that we trust Russia to produce fuel tablets for a new kitchen and take it somewhere in the fuel bank.
This is the main task of the document signed today, "said the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party.
- The integration processes in the CIS space were clear and appropriate.
The Minister also noted that such information should not be in the public domain.
By order of the head of state, the aitmukhametovich aitmukhametov was appointed executive secretary of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
today we must work to ensure that young people do not forget their history.
The main goal of the Aea project is to mobilize new technologies, fully support new enterprises.
The Kazakh side was represented by a delegation headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Roman Vasilenko, which includes representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the government.
During the visit to the facilities akim of Kostanay region archimedom of muhambets and prime minister of the Republic of Tatarstan Ildar Khalikov discussed specific prospects of cooperation.
I believe that this balanced policy in any case requires a market economy, requires the necessary care, it should give its products, "he said.
We have 42 industrial zones, 27 of which are under construction, 15 are in operation, the area of ​ ​ which is 8.5 thousand hectares.
as part of Kazakhstan's foreign policy - renunciation of nuclear weapons and obtaining status as a nuclear-free state.
G. Abdykalikova noted that the head of state has said many times that the "three corners of knowledge" are education, research and innovation, and this plays a large role in the development of the scientific economy.
in addition, it will allow entrepreneurs to attract new investments and transfer technologies from China.
During the meeting, the preparations for the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament and maslikhats, which will be held in the 20th round of this year, were discussed.
there we learned to sew toys, knit macrama, knit carpets, make ekiban, paint dishes and so on.
this year, space days in Kazakhstan - 2015 "increased by 2 times compared to last year, which indicates the popularity of Kazakhstan's space topics, the organizing committee of the event noted.
- The Eurasian Economic Union has less than a year of life, although it is realized in times unfavorable to the economy.
Independent Kazakhstan has always been in demand by foreign economic elements.
during the extended talks, the Karim Massim thanked the Chinese side for the warm meeting and congratulations on the 24th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence.
the parties also discussed the possibilities of partnership within the framework of the Asei (Association of Southeast Asian States) economic community and the Eurasian Economic Union.
Kazakhstan has acceded to 4 major UN documents; the President has a National Commission on Women and Family and Demographic Policy; The recommendations of the UN Committee to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women have been implemented; gender policy is regulated by 2 laws, in all state bodies responsible persons have been identified for the formation of gender policy, a lot of work has been done on gender expertise, "he said.
on the safety of all objects transferred to the museum, there are restoration documents, "he said.
a meeting of foreign investors is also planned.
international terrorism has become violent.
some countries seek to preserve their government structures even as the global macroeconomic situation improves, with economic and political degradation stalled.
In this direction, in 2016, the launch of the meat processing complex of the limited liability partnership Yuzhny Halal Meat Products in Zhambyl District is planned for April, and in the Merke et LLP Merke et overhauled the former meat processing plant and is ready to accept more than 10 tons of meat per day.
in the future, the company plans to launch alternative projects in all branches, as a result of which savings of more than 1800 mw will be achieved, that is, more than 30 million tenge per year, "the Kazpost press service shared.
thirdly, in order to coordinate our actions to implement reforms at all levels, it is necessary to combine parliamentary elections with the elections of local maslikhats.
From the 2015-2016 school year, experimental work has been carried out.
what happens in other regions. it is unclear what will happen in other regions .
now they will be able to take part in such a big holiday and protect the honor of Uganda, "he said.
Five best chefs from Kazakhstan went to New York to present Kazakh delicious dishes, sweets and drinks.
early elections are needed now. at the moment , early elections are necessary .
Additionally, in the Panfilov district, local breeds of Zabotya LLP are ready in the amount of 2.0 thousand sowing units.
The individual partner of the PPP facility will work according to the following rules: construction - implementation - commissioning.
at the first stage of interaction, the Korean side studies and analyzes the current situation in the field of health care in the capital.
According to him, the sphere of culture is working on the development of new sources of financing and increasing economic efficiency.
without this, we cannot solve new problems in the field of education.
thus, the registration process will be reduced by 2.5-3 hours.
the sides discussed issues of cooperation in the field of agriculture.
even in other countries did not accept ordinary people.
the government should ensure the effectiveness of tax administration.
That is, the traffic congestion in the city will also decrease.
this is very important during the crisis taking place in the global market.
Due to the changing political situation in the world, the sharp decline in oil prices, as well as other external conditions, Kazakhstan was in a difficult situation. due to a volatile global political and financial climate , the sharp decline of the oil price and other external factors kazakhstan finds itself in a difficult economic situation .
thus, the "bipec auto - Asia auto" became the first company in Kazakhstan to successfully implement all plans to enter the automobile market of the Eurasian Union.
In turn, the Chairman of the Mangistau Industrial Chamber noted that for our country, the Iranian Islamic Republic is always considered as a friendly state and economic partner.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the priority task of social policy is to preserve jobs and create new jobs.
we hope that these two projects will receive a significant army from measures implemented within the framework of two large projects, "he said.
:: Abdullayev highlighted the development of his production and attraction of foreign investments.
New initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev have a clear social orientation. "
One of the measures of state support is aimed at improving the investment climate.
voters and political forces, all structures of public administration will take an active part in the conduct of elections. i am sure that the country will provide equal rights to all participants of this process .
And although such a training is not held every year, after a year the moments of actual conduct were announced, "said Colonel Oleg stumbling block, an officer of the intelligence department of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus.
President of the National Center for Space Research and Technology of the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, first vice-rector for the development of the doctor of physical and mathematical sciences Genghiz Omarov and al-Farabi, doctor of chemical sciences, professor of mukhambetkali burkitbaev signed a memorandum of cooperation on joint research, teaching and research activities in the field of training personnel.
On March 4, 2016, the Central Election Commission adopted a resolution "On accreditation of observers of an international organization and a foreign state for early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and regular elections of deputies of maslikhats scheduled for March 20, 2016."
today parliament is represented in the upper house. today the parliament is represented by the upper chamber .
In addition, Samruk-kazyna, together with Zhilstroysberbank JSC, will commission more than 3 thousand apartments.
the company exported not only with the regions of Kazakhstan, but also with the Chinese market. it is important the company has adjusted the export of goods not only in the regions of kazakhstan , but also in the markets of china .
According to the deputy, the President of Kazakhstan proposed concrete 7 steps to overcome the crisis, including the creation of an economy independent of raw materials, the implementation of the "nұrly zhol" program, the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, in addition, various options were developed in the event of a further decrease in oil prices.
And now, when we are entering a new historical period and are embarking on a large-scale modernization of the country and the real implementation of presidential reforms in all areas, the parties receive a new mandate of voter confidence.
for many years in relations between Iran and the West.
I am grateful for the warm meeting of our delegation. i would like to express my gratitude for warm hospitality .
The Chairman of the EEC Board expressed confidence that in the year of Kazakhstan's leadership of integration processes a new impetus of development will be received.
a total of 29 monitoring activities were carried out by the Accounts Committee during the reporting period. totally the accounts committee inspected 29 control actions in 2015 .
The main theme of the congress is training and creating jobs, developing proposals for adjusting the economic direction of the country's development aimed at developing high-tech production.
the geography of trade to date includes strategic entry into the market of near and far abroad, other countries of the Kyrgyz Republic and central Asia.
It is worth noting that the team of the cultural center "Belarus" takes part in the current events of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
most often katev. "
The meeting is dedicated to two memorable dates: the 60th anniversary of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research and the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the heavy ion accelerator dc-60 into the construction of the capital.
intergovernmental protocol on amendments to the agreement on the lease of facilities and combat sites 929 of the State Flight Test Center of the Russian Federation, located on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Protocol on amendments and additions to the agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on the procedure for using 929 state flight test centers, Protocol amending the contract for the lease of the test site, intergovernmental agreement with the Kyrgyz Republic on the provision of free military-technical assistance, Draft laws on ratification of the Protocol on amendments and additions to the Agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia on the conditions for the operation and lease of the test site and ensuring the life of the city of Priozersk were submitted to the Committee on International Relations, Defense and Security.
together we all withstood many tests, were honest and strengthened.
The issue of payment of travel a.aimbetov has been solved. the issue of payment for flight of a. aimbetov has been resolved .
in what direction will the situation in the world develop?
the president supported the initiative of the deputies and expressed confidence together with the population.
The interlocutors exchanged views on the most pressing issues on the international agenda.
to enter it, you need to be human resources, organizational and educate not only the company, but also those who interact with the company, "said E. Akhmutova.
this would allow for the timely exchange of information between the competent authorities.
So, according to him, "more than 30 condidates for deputies of maslikhats of all levels are registered on the territory of the regional election commission."
In his speech, A. Sekeshev noted that the government, on behalf of the president, is working to save on foreign institutions in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the sides exchanged views on further strengthening cooperation in the production and investment spheres.
in addition, work is underway to improve tax and customs policies, large-scale privatization has begun, the second stage of industrialization of the country is underway, social policy is being improved, and state accountability is increasing.
The head of the fund collection, accounting and storage service of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan, speaking about the "Give the National Museum" action, presented all participants with letters of thanks on behalf of the director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Darkhan Manbai.
about 250 servicemen of the Kazakh peacekeeping battalion Kazbat will go there.
it depends on each of us what the new world will be, our common future.
The Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan raises such important topics as organic agriculture, the creation of an agricultural education system, food safety, "the Deputy Director General of FAO for Europe and Central Asia and the regional representative Vladimir Rakhmanin said at the official opening of the office.
The development programme plays a central role in ensuring the sustainable development of mankind, including the eradication of poverty, increasing employment and improving the standard of living of the population, improving the education system, protecting the environment and restoring.
The event was dedicated to attracting international tourism organizations as part of the exhibition, which will be held from June 10 to September 10, 2017, the report said.
we need to work on their further implementation, "said the Secretary General.
The Eurasian University named after Gumelev held a round table "Interregional Integration: Prospects and Experience of the Development of the Eurasian Economic Space."
Kazakh and Iranian business associations consider issues of intensifying cooperation in priority sectors of the economy, and also propose measures to eliminate barriers in the implementation of joint commercial projects.
to find new markets based on marketing and economic research, it is necessary to advise companies and develop a strategy to increase competitiveness in a crisis, "said Doctor of Economics.
As the director of the archive of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Boris Zhaparov noted, in the photographs exhibited at the exhibition, you can see photos of the head of state with the heads of other states and the work of Kazakhstani diplomats.
The meeting was attended by representatives of state bodies, Kazakh and foreign scientists, heads of universities and scientific organizations, domestic experts in the field of science.
the chairmen discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Poland, as well as exchanged views on important international issues.
at the same time, 5 institutional reforms are the further development of Kazakhstan, further social modernization, economic growth, even despite the growing financial crisis and geopolitical instability in the world.
in addition, buo provides methodological assistance to management companies and market participants, which involves not only supporting the conflict, but also consolidating and promoting their interests at the republican level.
Kazakhstan and Finland share a common world, such as a cold climate. kazakhstan and finland have much in common .
I think that Kazakhstan has a moral right to hold such an event. i believe kazakhstan has the moral right to host such event .
As the Majilisman noted, the patriotic act "Eternal Country" was adopted at the 24th session of Kha.
in total, there are 991 polling stations in the region, "said T. Dautov.
In general, it is necessary to hold early elections at the meeting, "he said.
During the meeting, the main issues of the electoral process and preparations for the elections were discussed.
the plan of the nation is the way to the Kazakh dream. "
the test of the flight crew was not accidental and was carried out as part of the operational-tactical command and staff exercise "Aibalta-2016."
we are receiving information about candidates.
today we will meet with you at the capital's opera house, built on the initiative of the head of state. our meeting is taking place in " astana opera " theater , built on the initiative of the head of state .
The head of state also drew attention to the need to support small and medium-sized businesses, as well as further housing construction.
The volume of investments in agriculture of the region amounted to 5.3 billion tenge.
The bilateral meeting of Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev and Minister of Transport of the Russian Federation M.Skolova was also held.
these are "southern" industrial zones in the Suzak, Maktaaral, Shardarin, Kazygurt, Tulkubas regions, Turkestan, Shymkent cities.
According to A. Akhmetova, the holding has been working with foreign partners for more than 4-5 years.
Within the framework of the event, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Technical Development Zhumatay Salimov made a report of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the basics of the national plan "100 concrete steps" to implement five institutional reforms.
we have a large group in Kazakhstan.
Considering that the villagers are half the population of Kazakhstan, the issue becomes significant, "said D. abaev.
The project continues the construction of a mining and processing plant for the processing of sulfide ore, "the report said.
photo: forbes.kz
photo: khabar.kz
photo: ortcom.kz
Given the unstable world economic situation, I consider it advisable to hold meetings and elections to maslikhats at all levels. taking into account the current instability of the global economic situation , the holding of snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels is logical .
During the meeting, the governor of Jiangsu-typheng expressed interest in ensuring that the results of the Chinese side in implementing the development of the "lead-east gate" are as effective as possible and expand the sphere of mutually beneficial partnership.
now he works in leading Kazakh and foreign companies, "said N. Nazarbayev.
During the conversation, he congratulated the head of state on the March holiday and wished the Kazakh people prosperity.
In early March this year, the Governor of Zhalaguz district, the bank and a foreign investor signed a tripartite memorandum in which the Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan should find buyers for developers from among its clients.
there are no competitors in this industry in Kazakhstan, as you know, he is the leader in his zone.
According to the speaker, the National Chamber welcomes the arrival in Kazakhstan of foreign producers, for whom a system of stimulation of these products has been developed.
talgat mamyrtayula koybakov from the post of commander of the regional command "south";
According to the head of Baiterek holding of Bishimbayev, Kazakhstani companies showed great interest in the development of railway communication.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev during his visit to Aktobe noted that products and ktl are one of the strongest schools in the country, "said B. Saparbayev.
The concert, organized as part of the celebration of the First President's Day, was attended by Kazakhstan pop stars, leading musical and dance groups of the country.
all of this we can do. " sauer.
according to him, a gram of gold price is determined by London metal prices.
The main goal of the partnership is to support domestic producers and service providers.
Dear Kazakhstanis, participants of the celebration congratulate on the great holiday of the great steppe - independence day! dear people of kazakhstan , i congratulate you on the great holiday of the great steppe - the independence day !
During the meeting, the participants discussed the main proposals of the states of the union and approved conceptual issues on the construction procedure.
Currently, a combined vaccine "in one tube," containing lightweight viruses of measles, beets, mumps, shows good results.
the composition of the regional headquarters has been approved and is ready for work. the composition of the regional campaign headquarters has been formed and is ready to work .
the first service appeared on the portal, made online payments. the first services involving conduct online payments were provided on the portal .
at the same time, the parties expressed satisfaction with the level of interaction of multilateral structures, including within the framework of Shu.
As part of the implementation of iidb, an investment project for the construction of a plant for the production of cobalt-nickel products was approved. as part of the spiid there is an investment project for the construction of the plant , aimed at obtaining of a cobalt-nickel products " sat nickel . "
implementation of this project will allow receiving support from the state in the implementation of innovative projects.
kazagro and baiterek have become inefficient intermediaries between the budget and banks.
we completely changed the composition of the commission, if last year the commission included officials and representatives of state bodies, then this year the entrepreneurs themselves evaluated. if earlier there were government officials , representatives of state bodies , this year the commission has included entrepreneurs , representatives of industry associations and the public .
all parties should be provided with free and equal opportunities in the media. all parties are provided with the free and equal access to the mass media .
actively participates in all spheres of life of the country.
Our profession traditionally participates in the exhibition. our company will traditionally take part in the exhibition .
they explain to employees the application of legislation on public service, "said the vice minister.
the president's instructions to implement five institutional reforms of the "Plan of the Nation 100 Concrete Steps" and the instructions voiced at the congress of the Nұr Otan party must be implemented now, and for this you need an updated parliament.
production of tank helmets has been ordered in the joint-stock company "breathing" since this year.
all expenses for food and the place of residence of volunteers during the international exhibition will be at the expense of the national company Astana Expo-2017.
rural, urban children in Kazakhstan should be on the same level in the world space.
In the future, the Foreign Ministry will work on the foreign and foreign economic interests of the country.
According to the expert, Kazakhstanis have created all the conditions for adapting the global economic reality.
the professionalism of the public service in this regard is supported by a hub created jointly with the Buudb and the Government of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that the akimat is constantly working on the adoption of new projects in the industrialization map.
the funds received are expanded, rebuilt and replenish the working capital of the institution.
Christmas pleases the hearts of believers with special joy, happiness and purity.
anti-crisis measures envisaged in the national plan, improvement of legislation, interaction between the state and civil society.
most of the appeals were sent to tax authorities, state institutions and competent authorities, quasi-state sectors in the field of procurement, "he said.
our country, through its successful development models, has shown how important stability, peace and harmony are.
They also expressed their readiness to intensify business partnerships and strengthen mutual political support in accordance with the national interests of the two countries.
I sincerely congratulate you on May - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan! i warmly congratulate you on the day of unity of people of kazakhstan !
Therefore, your entry into the filmmaking markets, a great prospect for Kazakhstan film motorographers, "said the head of the Kazakh department.
With this competition, we wanted to show the audience that in a short time you can change yourself and the team, "said the business coach.
in addition, the participants of the city headquarters considered new procedures for the bills "On Standardization" and "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts in Ensuring Uniformity of Measurements and Standardization."
- here was the integration of cultures.
During the meeting, the head of state heard a report on the results of the fund's activities this year.
92.5 thousand tons of meat were produced in the region.
According to him, the average age of the current meeting was 56 years, and a year earlier in the third and fourth convocations - 52-53 years.
More than 19 thousand facts of violations of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan were revealed, fines in the amount of 429 million tenge were imposed.
the state should take care of them. "he said.
Today, Kazakh servicemen have the opportunity to study at educational institutions of the Pakistani Islamic Republic, the military academy of the ground forces, the college of national defense, etc.
As a result, this will positively affect the health of our compatriots, "said the medical worker.
The President of Kazakhstan was informed about the ongoing work on the construction and further development of the capital.
According to the Minister, in the first four months of this year, oil production amounted to 26.2 million tons.
he also visited the Holy Trinity Church.
After processing the letter, gifts will be sent to the regions of the country and branches.
During the meeting akim noted the special importance of the project on the eve of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 and expressed readiness for comprehensive support of the project.
We are trying to ensure legislation in the country in accordance with international standards, "said the Vice Minister for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan Aigul Shaimova.
The agreement was signed on July 15, 2015 in the city of Ufa.
But these projects need to attract both foreign and local investors.
Kazakhstan actively supports integration processes in Eurasia, strengthening cooperation in the transport, energy, food and water spheres, guided by the goals of the pair at the regional level, developing multilateral cooperation in the Caspian region and southern Asia.
Recall, on December 14 of this year, the solemn ceremony of presenting the State Prize to the laureates of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev took place in the acord.
The document defines the priorities of companies working together.
a party that thinks only of itself is eventually persecuted. the countries , interested only in own progress , can come to a chaos .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also held a meeting with heads of state bodies and commanders of special forces.
The memorandum was signed by the Chairman of the Board of Kazgeologia JSC, scientist Nurzhanov and General Director of Polymetal Vitaly Nesis.
The purpose of the law on public-private partnership in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as in the model law "On public-private partnership of the CIS" is to create conditions for the long-term effective interaction of the state with business entities by ensuring the sustainable socio-economic development of the country and combining their resources for the implementation of socially significant tasks, "said L. Turlashov.
As Y. Karin noted, the increase of transit potential in Central Asia will allow developing a number of geopolitical factors.
It is necessary to make a decision to reduce inflation and reduce the limit tariff on electricity in order to support production entrepreneurship and coverage of large power plants, "said K. Massimov.
for example, Chinese companies are interested in creating joint enterprises for the processing of agricultural products in Kazakhstan (meat, oil and fat and fodder crops, tomato processing plants) and feedlots and further export of Kazakh products.
Abdikalikova paid special attention to issues of family and demographic policy, reproductive health of the younger generation, violence against women and issues of social and political advancement of women.
they should meet with members of all ethnocultural associations, as well as with members of kha.
Recall that the construction of a 13-apartment residential building began in 2013.
I think that it is very advisable to establish tight control over budget finances. i think it 's right that there will be a strict control over the budget funds .
the main goal here is to show the culture, traditions and history of Kazakhstan and strengthen friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Spain.
therefore, I am sure that new deputies will come and pay attention to the issues of the rural population.
Kazakhstan's banks must comply with all international standards, including the Basel Committee and International Monetary Fund standards.
the Orthodox Church makes a great contribution to strengthening harmony and peace in society, the development of an effective dialogue between the state and religious associations in Kazakhstan. the orthodox church makes a significant contribution to the strengthening of peace and accord in the society , as well as the development of a fruitful dialogue between the state and religious associations in kazakhstan .
The high consumer concentrations and professions applied by labour law are important for financial centres. for the financial centers , high professionals , flexible labor legislation is important .
We hope that the people will warmly perceive the words of the head of state, additions to the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
According to him, Kazakhstan is a social state that spends the vast majority of funds on socially vulnerable segments of the population.
The ambassador also noted the viability of rational decisions voiced in the message of the head of state on November 30, 2015 in connection with the current economic situation.
During the meeting, issues such as the effective use of agricultural land, innovations in the field of construction, as well as planned changes in tax legislation were discussed.
In 2006-2010, Kazakhstan sent one million tons of grain to Egypt.
During the meeting, issues of entry of Georgian citizens into Kazakhstan, as well as interaction of internal affairs bodies in the field of training of personnel were discussed.
they see in our decisions the appearance of vision, maturity. in our experience they will find examples of wisdom decisions , verified actions , unbending resistance during the difficulties that we had to meet , and will learn the history of this time .
At the same time, there is an increase of 74.8% compared to the same period last year.
The implementation of the national plan of the head of state will allow Kazakhstan not only to strengthen the economy, but also to present itself at a high level on the world stage. implementation of the national plan will allow kazakhstan to gradually strengthen not only the economy but also to appear worthy on the world stage .
In 2015, according to the indicator, "innovative potential" takes 31st place, in terms of research organization and innovative growth - 29th place, in terms of sufficiency of scientists and engineers - 21st place, "the Secretary of State said.
at the international exhibition Expo-2017 in Astana on the theme "energy of the future."
for students and pensioners, for the disabled.
According to the Department of Employment, Labor and Social Protection of Astana, most often workers come from Turkey and China.
nұrly sting. "
most of the industrial map enterprises operate stably. most of the companies of the industrialization map work stably .
We use modern technologies and created more than 40 new jobs, "said P. Sharapaev.
in the lobby of the lincoln center there is a semicircular yurt equipped with glaze, as well as a photo exhibition for the capital of Kazakhstan.
no less important work was carried out on the activities of the head of state and the government to conduct a legal examination of draft acts.
all I've talked about is the obstacles we can overcome.
some of them have the opportunity to participate in the b-world cup.
A hotel with 40-50 rooms will also be built, "said the mayor of the city.
photo: thenews.kz
Among them are representatives of agriculture, culture, sports, education, journalists and housewives, owners of the "silver college."
Representatives of the Afghan parliament thanked Kazakhstanis for the humanitarian assistance provided.
currently, as is known, the main issue facing peasants is the processing and sale of products. to date , the main question that faces the farmers is processing and marketing of the goods .
a full package of taxi services, visiting facilities, visiting art places is provided, "said Nurzhan Altai, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP.
The heads of institutions of the two countries noted the significant potential of bilateral legal cooperation and noted the special relevance of combining efforts in the framework of countering terrorism, ensuring national and international security, the report said.
all humankind hopes for the twenty-first century as a new era of global cooperation.
In his speech, the akim of the district a. Taizhanov noted that President Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the availability and quality of housing for the population remains one of the most important priorities in our country.
in the city there is an itk "and an industrial zone where we completed the construction of infrastructure.
unfortunately, we can see tragic events in history, "said K. muttonen.
Of course, the armed forces of Kazakhstan are ready for joint peacekeeping operations with partner states in this direction.
the first five-year plan of industrialization has become history, but the results of the first year of the second five-year plan will expand work in this direction. first five-year industrialization plan is over , but the results make it possible to talk about the work done in this direction .
In this regard, the Nұr Otan party sets specific goals at the electoral stage.
D. gold noted that Israel's participation in the exhibition opens up new opportunities for Kazakh-Israeli cooperation.
because all regions of the great steppe were connected to each other.
in addition to scientific issues, according to him, they are interested in the research of our country in the historical and cultural spheres.
this economic indicator can be achieved by increasing new drivers and export revenues. such steps of the economic growth can be achieved only through the formation of new drivers , providing product export earnings .
In addition, measures are being taken to ensure the effectiveness of market mechanisms, "he said.
we could always use such stages as the opportunity to reach a new qualitative level of development.
The Chairman of the Majilis noted that the development of this industry and the introduction of new technologies will be facilitated by the Islamic organization for food security located in the capital.
This was the initiative of our president, voiced in the capital in 2011, "said E. Zhalmukhanov.
Every year, the level of state support for poultry farming increases.	r.sharipov has noted that the volume of the state support in the poultry industry is increased year by year .	0,98
The President of Kazakhstan has created conditions for obtaining education from Kazakhstan about a thousand scholarships for students from Afghanistan.	about a thousand scholarships kazakhstan allocated for students from afghanistan .	0,98
The steam country team began a government dialogue in Kazakhstan in relation to tdm, their relevance to Kazakhstan, as well as their implementation.	the un country team in kazakhstan has already begun a dialogue with the government concerning the sustainable development goals , their relevance for kazakhstan , as well as the implementation of the path , suitable for the country .	0,98
The Union of Lawyers of Kazakhstan takes an active part in measures to ensure the rule of law.
As last year, these funds will be allocated to social projects.
in particular, the Chairman of the Committee on Economy and Industry of the Senate of Parliament in his welcoming speech noted that the strategic vision of Kazakhstan, its implemented programs in the field of industry and innovation, attracting new technologies and developing its transport and transit potential.
if some giants go through the world political confrontation and they solve their problems - this is a difficult situation for the whole planet.
the consumer price index in March 2016 compared to December 2015 amounted to 103%.
yesterday on this topic I spoke with the Don minister, "he said.
I am sure that you will continue to serve the supreme commander, the state and the people, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Imangali Tasmagambetov.
And even if the world is fighting, you need to raise the flag of peace, "said D. Verkhoturov.
these families have at least three people, and they receive an average of 105 thousand tenge in wages, "he said.
mainly, these are investments in the field of production.
Tokayev thanked the chairmen of the committees and all deputies for their fruitful work on working with documents.
languages: Kazakh, Russian, English.
construction of a plant for the assembly of machine tools for the manufacture of spare parts for a cast iron road in the village of Zaliv, the initiator of the project of the Kazakhstan Group of Railway Workers LLP.
The domestic diplomat also familiarized his Lithuanian counterpart with the main approaches to promoting the application of the Republic of Kazakhstan instead of the non-permanent member of the Security Council for 2017-2018, focusing on priorities in water, energy, nuclear and food security.
Note that our hall will be filled with social foreign investors, "he said.
we have been raising this issue for a long time.
there is an election program of the party, it is clear and understandable, a list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis is presented.
all optimal conditions for our work will be created.
they will visit the entire region of the republic.
pictures provided by Krendel LLP
this historical date became a new point of construction of sovereign Kazakhstan, and also contributed to the creation of modern state devices, the implementation of socio-economic transformation, the realization of the ideas of peace, unity and social harmony of the Kazakhstani people.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ethiopia noted that tedros gerbreyesus is very important technical assistance of Kazakhstan to African countries, especially by steam.
55.2% of the buildings of preschool organizations and preschool mini-centers are located in adapted buildings, 44.8% - buildings of a typical project.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that despite the global challenges, Kazakhstan continues to diversify the economy.
this strategic document was sent to the diplomatic corps registered in the capital.
the target market of the plant for the production of electronic optical devices, night vision devices, thermal imagers are the states of Kazakhstan, CIS, Turkey, India, China, etc.
During the three-day meeting, it is planned not only to get acquainted with interesting offers, but also to meet with students and business elites of Aktobe.
k.tokayev invited the Estonian and Polish sides to take an active part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana.
This world experience works in this direction by the Ministry of Health and Social Development. i would like to note that it 's the international experience , and in this direction the ministry of health of kazakhstan works .
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, having concluded a memorandum on agricultural and industrial industries, the regions reached a new level of cooperation to increase trade turnover.
Thanks to the policy of the President of Kazakhstan, our youth achieve many successes. thanks to youth policy of the president , we have reached much .
the results of the first phase of the nation's plan show that we are on the right track. the results of the first phase of implementation of the national plan show that we are on the right way .
dear friends, I congratulate you on a significant anniversary - the 20th anniversary of the creation of the Accounts Committee for the execution of the national budget. dear friends , i congratulate you on the remarkable date - the 20th anniversary of the founding of the accounts committee for control over execution of the republican budget .
organization of exchange trading by hedging new legislative clall conditions, tax and technological conditions, "A. mashkevich said.
in the future, the pier can lie to the depth of the sea, stretch 140 meters and be at a depth of 18-20 meters.
land will be provided to foreigners and foreign companies by the decision of the Governor's Office of the region. the land will be given to the foreigners and foreign companies only by a decision of governor 's office .
During the discussion of this issue, joint measures of the FCM and the Ministry of Education and Science were developed, allowing more active application of the program in the daily life of schools in the republic.
Recall that the XXIV session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was launched at the Palace of Peace and Harmony in the capital under the chairmanship of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
their tax exemption, reduction of customs procedure, insurance, etc. In this regard, Kazakhstan increases the lists of beneficiaries compared to last year's exhibition.
Over 23 years of UN cooperation, the government of Kazakhstan has been at an important stage of development: the formation of a stable life for the population from 1990 to new social, political and economic reforms and support before receiving assistance from partners after the environmental disaster since 2010.
today's composition of deputies has done important work and has achieved significant success.
this agreement will improve the qualifications of kmu teachers, complete an internship, carry out scientific research and enter phd doctoral studies on the basis of a partner university in the future program.
For the first time this year, changes were made to the presidential decree and regulations on the competition, "he said.
in addition, he was interested in the transport industry, "said Abikeeva.
One of important events which we held is the train "The M G_l_k Ate" devoted to the 25 anniversary of independence of RK.
to continue this good mission and turn Kazakhstan into a clean land for green and future generations.
In accordance with the signed memorandum, cooperation in the field of industry and the agro-industrial complex is provided.
During the meeting, the current activities of the committee and the tasks for the upcoming period were discussed.
I. Rogov noted that in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 63 of the Constitution, the Parliament or the sitting of the Parliament, the President of Kazakhstan may circulate after consultations with the chairmen of the Houses of Parliament and the Prime Minister.
these elections will contribute to the modernization and advancement of Kazakhstan, "said Richard Schenz, deputy president of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber.
we have long-term, medium- and short-term strategies for action.
legalization of money benefits both legalizing citizens and the country's economy.
in 2015, 7 apartment buildings were built with these funds, "said N.
The Czech delegation expressed its readiness to invest in agriculture, construction and education in Aktobe region.
he shares his research, and also includes a map of the social stability of our companies.
The President noted the role of Almaty in the Universiade.
if we talk about the development of the financial market, then tasks are clearly indicated here.
new norms of the law were discussed with the participation of agricultural workers, farmers, peasant farms and are caused by the protection of rural interests.
we must help each of them.
it takes years to become a qualified driver.
During the consideration of the first issue of the agenda, representatives of the Ministries of Health and Social Development, Education and Science were informed about the results of the application of the computer program "method of psychological diagnosis" in schools of the republic.
the meeting discussed the creation of a single program of the tourism product "Modern Silk Road," as well as the issue of its development in the international tourism market.
The purpose of the exhibition is to assess and demonstrate small and medium-sized enterprises, reflect current issues of entrepreneurial activity.
this is knowledge, hard work, a manner of dexterity and achievement of goals.
The intergovernmental agreement was an important step towards the progressive expansion of the bilateral legal framework.
Currently, large Italian, German and Hungarian companies are actively intensifying in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, it is necessary to intensify work, despite this issue, "the akim said.
This will happen in June this year, "said Judge of the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan in an interview with strategy2050.kz Baglan Makulbekov.
The intensity of vehicles on the modern Western Europe-Western China highway is 7,500 cars per day, "said Karibayev.
good health, professional success in the development of the country and well-being of your families! "the president concluded in his congratulations.
The Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a solemn reception in the harbor on Independence Day.
27 applications were rejected within the framework of the law, the remaining 48 applications are under consideration by this commission, "said the head of the district.
- We have simple guys who can work on technology.
I consider a good initiative of the head of state to support domestic production.	we hope that next year we will begin to lay the first stones of our factory ,  a. zhaizeitova has said .
In accordance with this, public councils operate in all areas and the city of Taraz. "
Besides, in the end of the meeting the youth of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk published the address to participants of the national stock "The M G_l_k Ate" and gave mementoes.
in addition, small architectural sculptures are installed on the main squares, ball lights and garlands on the streets.
This year, it is planned to launch several large investment projects in the Abay region.
not to cooperate today means losing the future tomorrow. "
the average speed of public transport rolling stock increased from 12 to 15%.
to become a leader, it is necessary not only to manage the state, but also to solve the issues that have arisen. being a leader is not only to control the state , but also to solve problems .
Today, our country is developing and implementing regional and global cooperation initiatives for the maintenance of peace and sustainable development.
The sides expressed special interest in strengthening the Kazakh-Cuban partnership in the field of health, tourism, energy, sports and education.
it is included in the list of UNESCO anniversary days.
Recall that the holding of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Astana in 2017 is one of the main projects of Kazakhstan.
today, in the context of the financial crisis and instability of the world economy, it is necessary to stop the negative impact on the economies of our country and develop trade and economic cooperation, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also recalled that this year a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, a summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and a meeting of the CIS heads of state will be held.
Kazakhstan has since fulfilled all requirements, including import customs duties. kazakhstan is obliged to fulfill the commitments , including the import duties .
a fun, for example, "amazing day" passed while it was lying yesterday, "says the kamila akhmedzhanova.
of which 10% is paid by the Development Fund, the rest is paid by the enterprise itself.
joint projects with foreign companies for the development of livestock in the region are also successfully implemented. development projects related to livestock have become favorable together with the foreign companies .
Institutions of competent state bodies have been introduced for the first time by etiquette, "N. Nazarbayev said.
In accordance with the plan, we will hand over housing in September, "said Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
The meeting discussed the development of irrigated land, as well as the implementation of investment projects for planting apple crops, growing grain and oilseeds.
this is very important for the preservation of Kazakhstan unity.
I did not notice any disagreement on the part of the voters.
an anti-crisis plan of 100 concrete steps, "measures to deepen reforms within the framework of the Plan of the Nation, to fulfill the instructions of the head of state at an expanded government meeting on November 18, 2015, operational measures and a" special stage "for 2015-2016, as well as transitional measures of plans to de-dollarize the economy.
the youth wing of the "charivni zerel" operates under the society.
we invite the owners of Hungarian enterprises to take part in the privatization process, as well as to create joint ventures in Kazakhstan.
the ministry also carries out organizational work and other activities, including the development of internal documentation, plans for the development of the corporation, analysis and optimization of infrastructure, and inventory.
and it was a full-fledged program.
this is a global trend, it is not necessary to look for the perpetrators.
The platform is based on the principles of inheritance and is aimed at the consistent implementation of previously adopted international agreements and decisions, "said K. Dzhakupov.
In 2015, 10 projects were implemented, 600 jobs were created, "said the head of the region.
welcomes the holding of such large-scale events in the capital of our republic, this forum serves as a platform for the exchange of ideas in the direction of the Turkic forum and makes a great contribution to the history and culture of the Turkic peoples, "Mr. Abdykalikova read.
governments of many countries keep this issue under control, and we must control it, "said the head of state.
The forum will also be attended by the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde, the President of the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Suma Chakrabarti, the Director of the Land Institute of Columbia University Jeffrey Sax, one of the three most respected economists in the world according to the British magazine "the economist."
we also see large reserves in the area of ​ ​ improving the investment situation.
A. Orsariev noted that for the training of 300 engineering personnel, the university trained teachers in Japan, Singapore, Kazakhstan, and the UK.
One of the main events in London was the forum for the international financial center "Capital," organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the UK.
coherence, perseverance, creativity and dedication are required of all state bodies, public institutions and citizens.
in the message this question is voiced, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, Tamara Duissenova also held talks with a representative of the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of Germany Susan Hoffmann.
he expressed confidence that the international student game in Almaty will be successful.
he also thanked him for his respect and respect during last year's visit to Kazakhstan.
in this regard, 1,190 agreements ratified by the Parliament take precedence in the national law.
Director of the Youth Public Fund Tatyana Ishchenko spoke about working with children with disabilities in the region.
The main tasks of the agro-industrial complex in the region are 4 directions of the Address of the Head of State - increasing labor productivity, increasing export potential, developing the agro-industrial complex.
cooperation is also successfully developing in the framework of interaction with the Partnership for Peace training center (kazo).
According to the Minister, the priority area in the Republic of Kazakhstan is the fight against organized crime and cases implemented with religious extremism, terrorism and other serious crimes.
as a result of the agreement, the manifesto was published as an official document in the quick first system of the first committee of the UN General Assembly and the UN disarmament commission.
International election observation is widely known throughout the world and plays an important role in ensuring an accurate and impartial assessment of the nature of electoral processes. international election observation plays an important role in providing accurate and unbiased assessment of the electoral processes .
The head of state also noted the importance of forming new regional drivers of economic growth.
a third of deputies of the fifth convocation are succession of generations, two thirds are new people, among whom, in addition to famous people, people of public organizations, the expert said.
On January 1, 2016, the practical stage of the implementation of the National Plan began - 100 concrete steps to implement 5 institutional reforms.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusipov presented the old strenz at a meeting with the new chairman of the Bundestag, and also expressed gratitude for many years of active work as the head of the Central Asian organization - the initiator of the parliament - a deputy from the Bendestago-German group, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
As of April 25 of this year, of the planned 128 objects, 111 objects were put up for auction, including 50 objects sold.
and a meat processing complex with a capacity of 1.5 thousand tons will be opened in the Burabai district, "said S. Ulagin.
The head of state got acquainted with the project to build a mosque for 7 thousand people, and also met with representatives of the religious denomination and the creative intelligentsia of the city.
66,036 objects and securities worth 521.3 billion tenge were legalized, "the report said.
This article of the head of state is a very important document for me as a person with an active civic position.
only the strengthening of peace and disarmament can positively affect relations in the world, "said S. Karchev.
4947 of objects for a total amount of 20,666, 2 million tenge were legalized.
once again, the world is in danger and cannot be ignored.
the State, for its part, creates all necessary conditions.
among pastoralists, the concept of the fatherland had the same meaning, among landowners.
- Of course, Kazakhstanis, among them entrepreneurs, should find the right way out of problematic situations taking into account new geopolitical and economic situations.
In recent years, fisheries in the region have been rapidly developing and becoming a serious part of the region's economy. fish processing industry is growing rapidly in the region , becoming an important sector of the economy .
a, 2 - lack of opportunity to participate in elections due to social, domestic and other problems; 1 - not related to the electoral process (application for the resolution of domestic situations); 1 - complaint of the candidate for deputies on violation of the procedure for conducting election campaigning; 9 - complaints about decisions, actions (inaction) of election commissions; 2 - complaints about the actions of state bodies, as well as their officials; 11 - on disagreement with the registration of a candidate for deputy.
therefore, the first thing we hear from the people is affordable means.
- General Director of the national library of the Republic of Almaty alibek askarov;
Kazakhstan's application for joining the CIS is explained by the desire to develop mutually beneficial partnership with the countries of the region on many issues, including tourism, energy, health care, etc.
low oil prices forced all companies to revise their budgets in order to reduce, to reduce the cost of production. the low price of oil has forced all companies to review their budgets towards reducing and seriously address the reduction of production costs , " vladimir shkolnik has said .
In general, the agricultural sector should become the main driver of the further growth of the country's economy, "said E. Dossaev.
During the conversation, the heads of state discussed the state and prospects of bilateral relations, as well as issues of regional and international importance.
Between 16 March and 3 December of the current year, mobilization groups covered 4,705 remote rural districts in all regions of the country and visited 7,918 times.
the experience of the first five-year plan was considered in the second stage of industrialization.
the court and the protection and protection of the rights of Kazakhstanis comply with the standards of the Efdu countries, "the head of state said.
Currently, more than 500 Kazakh students study at Warsaw, Krakow, Lodz, Poznan and Zheshuv universities.
half of the public administration is women.
According to him, for the first three years the project was advised by the Ministry of Regional Development, a pilot region.
photo: pressclub.kz
The participants of the event decided to complete the construction of the project program, the press service said.
Alexander Vershbow noted the importance given to the nation to continue cooperation with Kazakhstan and the country's priority areas in the region against the background of the development of peacekeeping potential.
Among the enemy delegation from Kazakhstan were the people's hero of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the hero of Russia, the adviser to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the pilot-cosmonaut, the lieutenant general of aviation of the Republic of Kazakhstan talgat musabaev and the people's hero of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the aymbet pilot-cosmonaut.
we are adopting a single customs and national codes, it is planned to adopt a number of legislative acts, "he said.
President of San Bao Zhsh Corporation, Deputy General Director of Railway Construction Company JSC, fan guanghui informed about the activities of his enterprises and expressed readiness to implement joint projects in various areas.
The Kazakh diplomat familiarized the talking party with the main priorities of the foreign policy of the capital and spoke about the socio-economic and domestic political initiatives of the leadership.
firstly, through the e-government portal, receiving a digital signature, you can scan all documents. first of all , through the e-government portal with a digital signature , you can scan all documents .
Kazakhstan highly appreciates the support provided by Saudi Arabia since independence, "the minister said.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is not only the only Austrian state with diplomatic relations in Central Asia, but also the only Austrian embassy and trade adviser in the region.
in addition, today the eu is the largest trading partner and investor of Kazakhstan.
a single program for supporting and developing business - subsidizing and partially guaranteeing interest rates of bank loans, providing state grants to start business, providing the missing infrastructure.
Thus, the volume of industrial production amounted to 84 billion tenge or 100.6% by January-March 2015, "the report said.
A number of proposals and laws should be revised, "the President of Kazakhstan noted.
all this will make it possible to successfully implement measures for the development of the international financial center of the capital. the simplified currency , visa and labor regimes for participants of astana international financial center will begin working .
According to him, the construction of a plant for the processing of grain and oilseeds, the construction of a transport and logistics center, a commodity fish farm, the production of shield-frame panel materials necessary for the construction of housing, as well as the production of building materials that meet European standards.
The Chairman of the Moscow Department of Expo-2017 drew attention to the fact that more than 230 Kazakhstani enterprises were involved in providing the exhibition facilities with construction materials, contracts for the supply of services and goods totaling 77 billion tenge were concluded.
essay of the diplomat. "
if the judge or defender turns the camera off, then he will be held accountable, "he said.
echelon is a series of major conferences in Southeast Asia.
Recall that the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017, which will be held in the capital, is a major training event in Kazakhstan.
The themes of the master clock have also been selected as of today.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that it is necessary to pay special attention to the further diversification of the economy, ensuring employment and business activity through the implementation of state programs on the "beam road" and industrialization, the implementation of priority projects in the agro-industrial complex, and support for small and medium-sized businesses.
this will make it possible to clearly demonstrate the work of the department in solving the tasks set, "said K. Bozumbayev.
The address of the President of Kazakhstan proves that Kazakhstan's path of development is based on science. the address of the president confirms that the path of development of kazakhstan has a solid scientific basis .
In addition, at the briefing, the head of the district focused on the main indicators of the year.
Now, together with the Singapore center, we are studying the motivation zone of civil servants, "added A. Baimenov.
in Kazakhstan, the plant is the flagship of the industry of the region and the shipbuilding industry.
The Fund guarantees up to 85% of the loan amount to start-up entrepreneurs, as well as up to 20 million tenge to start-ups, and up to 50% of the loan amount to start-ups, but the loan amount should not exceed 360 million tenge, and in priority sectors of the manufacturing industry - no more than 1,850 million tenge for identified projects, "he explained.
According to the Vice Minister, among the countries included in the organization of Islamic cooperation, Kazakhstan is one of the largest exporters of food.
President Nazarbayev reported on joint work in the republic and magate.
in this regard, in order to further improve the work: filling typhoid with practical content through the implementation of specific joint projects; Implementation of mechanisms for the implementation of agreements following the ministerial meetings of typhus "focal point" and "follow up" to ensure coordination between participants in the development of a common position; To encourage the integration of business in the region within typhoid, we propose the practice of organizing investment forums with the participation of representatives of large national companies, small and medium-sized businesses, which are a large and active part of the middle group. "
in general, the buo function:
Therefore, these Hermitage days are of great importance, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
In a training workshop equipped with equipment, safety rules such as labor and production safety, norms, production sanitation are observed, and everything is done according to standards, "said the head of the human capital development department, bisekenova rose.
We observe the political life of Kazakhstan in Ukraine, including the current policy and initiatives of the head of state, the novelties of holding early elections in the Majilis. in the ukraine we overwatch the political life of kazakhstan , the skillful political leadership of president nursultan nazarbayev .
this event will not only become a political event of this year, but will also bring the benefits that everyone expects with confidence, "said L. Susainova.
I am sure that our cooperation will work for the benefit of the country, "said Alikhan Baimenov, chairman of the managing committee of the regional hub in the field of civil service in Astana.
there are efficient and long-term solar collectors that supply hot water and steam.
the agreement is unique, has no analogues in central Asia, and there are not many of them in the CIS, it shows the uniqueness and volume of work in the next five years, "said M.Lamsk.
Note that car repair plant 811 is a subsidiary of Kazakhstan Engineering JSC, which is engaged in overhaul of automotive and tracked equipment, modernization of military equipment, production of brake cables with asphalt passage to tracked tracks, overhaul and renewal of firefighters' tankers.
The President of Kazakhstan also elaborated on the issue of our country's participation in the global anti-nuclear movement.
when considering these qualification categories, citizens establish jobs, the amount of work performed and the level of remuneration.
During the II extraordinary congress of the public organization "Political Party" Unity, "the decision to participate in early elections to the Majilis and the adoption of the party's election program are considered.
Both domestic and foreign experts are involved in the discussion of important issues in the fight against terrorism.
the program provides increase in tariff setting according to the competition, development of border stations, reduction of terms of crossing of border, increase in goods turnover in the direction kitay-Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran / the countries of the Persian Gulf / India and in the opposite direction.
today is an important day in the field of education of our country.
for this, military transport helicopters and cars were involved.
programme documents and certain terms and definitions derived from existing experience will also be implemented.
The main theme of the forum is "Prospects and potential of the mining industry in effective economic development."
that is, it is inclined to operational inspection.
Among them are cement loans with investments of 1 million tons of cement and 500 thousand tons of filler per year in the amount of $150 million.
The meeting was attended by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China Hanhui Zhang, as well as deputies elected from Khkp Vladimir Kosarev, Galina Baimakhanova, a clear call and Magherram Magherrams.
Holding elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels will save money, "said a public figure.
Meeting a foreign guest, akim of Pavlodar region olat bakauov and head of management erg s.a.r.l. Alexander mashkevich presented to him the technological process of aluminium production in AK "Kazakhstan Electrolysis Plant" and "Kazakhstan Aluminum," the regional akimat reported.
M.Piotrovsky, in turn, spoke about the "hermitage days" that take place at the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan on December 1-2, and also thanked the head of state for his special attention to the development of intercultural integration of the two countries.
During the events, issues of countering terrorism, improving the model legislative framework, rapprochement and harmonization of national legislation in the field of combating crime, as well as other issues were discussed.
with different forms, types of work now we are on the cusp of a bot economy.
In 2016, it is planned to build 8 football pitches, 35 mini-football pitches, including 18 mini-football pitches with artificial turf. it 's planned to construct 8 football fields , 35 mini-football fields , including 18 mini-football fields with artificial turf , 23 volleyball and basketball courts and 16 simulators .
Currently, the country's service center is working on the deployment of citizens of Kazakhstan in the war in Syria and Iraq.
"Kazakhstan was one of the founders and took an active part in the creation of the bank.
The President considered a number of articles to reduce state budget expenditures, but social policy remained unchanged, will continue to take care of low-income families and will increase the salary of public sector employees of the "b" category.
it is too early to say what amounts are needed now, depends on what conditions will be created for our investors from your class, "said the Iranian entrepreneur.
The competition is aimed at informing the public about corporate social responsibility.
the export agreement was concluded with the help of the Samruk-kazyna white trading house.
this is the first experience as an observer. this is my first experience as an observer , but i have been to other countries and saw how they conduct elections .
according to the results of monitoring, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan turned out to be leaders among the central government bodies.
we are confident that the plan of the nation, the election of a new composition of deputies of the Majilis of parliament is a powerful engine for increasing the economic and civic activity of the entire people.
- How many voters were in the country?
state symbols of each country have their own history and meaning, "he said.
December was the most interesting and amazing month for children.
lela tsaava - coordination on procurement and contractual measures (Georgia)
During the meeting, the management of fisu expressed satisfaction with the construction of the universiade facilities, and also gave a speech on the work done.
The message of the head of state to the people on November 30, 2015 states that, despite economic risks, social support for the population will continue.
One of the most pressing challenges of the twenty-first century is the threat of nuclear terrorism and illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive materials. the threat of nuclear terrorism , as well as illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive materials , is one of the most serious problems of the 21st century .
The event will be attended by deputies, religious figures, heads of international organizations and diplomats, as well as domestic and foreign experts.
As a result, the volume of processing of agricultural products increased by 28.6 billion tenge and amounted to 158.6 billion tenge compared to last year.
- Anatoly Afanasevich, what do you associate with the statement of the day of the first President of Kazakhstan?
then production ceased, people were left without work and the means necessary for life.
This event is held by the Department of Tourism of Akmola region and Astana Expo-2017.
In the first quarter of 2016, the total volume of agricultural products increased by 2.9% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 317.8 billion tenge. the volume of gross agricultural output in the first quarter 2016 in comparison with the same period 2015 has been increased by 2.9 % and amounted to 317.8 billion tenge .
During the meeting, foreign guests highly appreciated the interaction of the central election commission and state bodies of Kazakhstan with international observers and generally highly appreciated Kazakhstan's readiness for the upcoming elections, the report said.
In conclusion, K. Massimov noted that significant results have been achieved in the formation and strengthening of trade and economic cooperation and neighborhood between the two countries.
It is very difficult to sing mozart, here you need to be able to rhythmically pour out voices, adapt to instruments, master drums, accurately set vocal positions and master one hundred percent voice, "the singer shared.
today we are building up equipment for puberty research. today , we are expanding the latest generation of core analysis laboratory with new equipment .
The President of Kazakhstan inspected the material base of the domestic special forces detachment, got acquainted with modern models of weapons, military equipment and equipment, as well as with the expositions of the lion service museum.
entrepreneurship also offers consulting activities for the development of enterprises in the field of light industry in the country. also , the company today offers services in terms of consulting for the development of similar enterprises in light industry .
this can be achieved by motivating people to preach common moral values, "he said.
in the letter, the authors note that last year was full of bright events in the life of the country.
- You have made big changes in cultural life of Kazakhstan through fine arts.
The head of state confidently said that terrorism and extremism have no future.
In turn, the Deputy Chairman, who thanked the Government of Japan for supporting the international exhibition Expo 2017: Energy of the Future, noted that in the capital, Japanese companies can maximize the opportunities of the exhibition to demonstrate their new achievements.
In addition, he noted the high level of interaction and effective implementation of investment projects and spoke about plans for ongoing work in the near future.
A sausage shop, a feedlot, a drinking shop, and trout workshops will also be opened. in addition , it is planned to open a sausage shop , bakery shop on pouring paint products , feed mill , farm goose , turkey breeding farm and plant breeding trout .
at the end of the meeting, he signed a protocol.
The President of the French Republic f.olland noted that the visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to Paris in November this year was another evidence of the high quality of bilateral relations, especially political dialogue and cooperation between educational institutions.
the subject is conducted for all groups, for military-administrative and logistical support groups. the discipline will be taught to all groups of military administration and a group of logistics .
I think that if possible, the consolidation and expansion of the financial potential of the state will be provided with additional measures to pay wages in the future. i think that with the strengthening and expansion of the financial capacity of the state in the future , our country will take additional measures to increase the level of payment .
after which he presented the best athletes and coaches with cash prizes in the amount of 150 thousand tenge.
At the press conference, the deputy akim of the region noted that in 2015, within the framework of Agrobusiness-2020, Nұrly zhol programs, 28.5 billion tenge was allocated from the regional and local budgets for 22 programs, which is 1.2 times more than in 2014.
We want large companies to profit, "he said.
The beginning of dual training on the basis of the PMASH was the reason for the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050. "
first of all, it is on these streets that one-way traffic will be introduced.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev presented O. Suleimenov with the gold award "Labor of Kazakhstan" for his outstanding contribution to the development of domestic literature, as well as for active public activities aimed at strengthening peace and civil harmony.
miners, metallurgists and miners support this initiative, "he said. joyful.
the main goals that increase the power of Kazakhstan as a state.	finally , the student concluded the interview citing the president  alga kazakhstan ! go kazakhstan ! . "
No funds are allocated from the State budget to promote political parties participating in elections. funds will not be allocated to political parties participating in the elections for propaganda purposes .
our American community was found in the source of the creation of the Astana hub.
The heads of state considered the main areas of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, water, energy, transport, logistics and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
creation of an appropriate regulatory framework in the field of market capital, money market, corporate governance within the framework of this memorandum. as part of this memorandum the ebrd will help to establish an adequate regulatory framework in such areas as the capital markets , money markets , corporate governance .
In October 2015, during the official visit of the Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe signed agreements on 8 projects totaling $52.5 million.
A new development trend based on equitable and equitable access by all nations to infrastructure, resources and markets.
we perceive your visit as a desire to raise bilateral relations to a new high-quality level.
thirdly, the Kazakh people will have to choose new ideas, parties and platforms in the future. thirdly , the people of kazakhstan will have the opportunity to choose new ideas and party .
As the press service of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports, the Assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the secretary of the security council nurlan ermekbayev, the chairman of the constitutional council Igor of horns, the chairman of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General askhat daulbayev, the Minister of Justice firm imashev and also representatives of the international, non-governmental, public, human rights organizations, scientists from Germany, Russia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine takes part in work of a forum.
The minimum nominal wage for agricultural, forestry and fishery workers is 61.7 thousand tenge, which is 53.5% lower than the average in the republic and 88.5 thousand tenge in education (33.3%, respectively).
In addition, Turkey's producers are working in the region, there are a number of joint ventures, "said K. bozumbayev.
It is very important for us to enter the Iranian market and consider other sales options, since they are associated with Russian magnets or Chinese buyers are very dangerous, "he said.
world-renowned economists, politicians, journalists, public figures gathered at the forum to discuss the prospects of the world economy, the geopolitical consequences in the Arab world, the future of the European Union, the information war of the 21st century, the image of oil-producing countries and the impact of the TV-cinema industry on society.
Today, there are 3.2 billion Internet users in the world, of which 50% are in Asia, and more than 60% are citizens of developing countries, he said.
on the site of the ministerial conference of the JCC e. Idrissov held a number of meetings with colleagues of the heads of foreign affairs departments, at which Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 was discussed.
It is worth noting that as part of the celebration of a memorable date, in the regions and cities of the region "hero of his time!," "My independent Kazakhstan!" Round tables, various exhibitions and festive events are held.
The rally was attended by representatives of the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region, the leadership of the city of ekibastuk, white Samruk-energo, veterans of the enterprise.
of them i. director of the Javakhishvili Vaga Kiknadze Institute of History and Ethnography (Georgia), director of the Institute of Asian Studies, senior coordinator of the Institute of Eastern European Studies in Warsaw, Vladyka Sokolovsky (Poland), doctor of international relations at the Budapest University of Corving Mikhail Aladar Dobrovich (Hungary rovich) and others.
Public awareness-raising on strengthening and developing Kazakhstan's identity and unity.
questions were most often asked about the registration of property, the legislative person, the registration of inheritance and the resolution of judicial acts. basically all the questions were related to the registration of real estate , legal entities , and execution of the judicial acts .
there is an increase in livestock in the region. there is an increase in the number of livestock .
for many generations of our ancestors, Kazakhstan's independence has become a noble dream.
Currently, the world is rapidly changing.
dear compatriots!
We can voice specific information in June and early August, "the minister said.
what are we going to do?
the election campaign finished final. the election campaign enters the home stretch .
Over the past 3 years, Kyzylorda region has a very high dinomics of development. in recent years , kyzylorda region shows very high dynamics of development .
The Minister will also answer questions on oil and gas chemical, coal, uranium, electric power, environmental protection.
- thanks for the interview
Kazakhstan implemented the whole part of the concept.
unfortunately, there are few specific mechanisms of interaction, even among experts. unfortunately , there are no so many mechanisms of interaction , even among the experts .
In his speech, the minister noted that now the work on clarification will be carried out at the address, that is, at the level of the region, district and village.
the proximity of our position will allow to establish cooperation within the framework of multilateral structures, "said President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in a statement to representatives of the garden.
Because the implementation of these tasks is aimed at improving the lives of citizens of our country, "he said.
Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan R.Oshakbayev noted the importance and new momentum of the regions will have a positive impact on the profession of the regions, and not only the metropolitan small and medium-sized business.
According to experts, only five countries of the world, including Kazakhstan, have the opportunity to produce and export products in this area, thereby ensuring global demand for food.
We are grateful for allowing us to take part in such a promising project as the creation of ahko, "said Iorg Bongrats.
we are completing the construction of thermal and energy power plants.
At the end of the year, an Italy-Kazakhstan gala concert will be held, as he works with the Italian embassy, "he said.
According to him, despite the optimization, all jobs will remain.
implementation of interaction directions will ensure macroeconomic stability, restore economic growth and create conditions for further development of partner countries.
It is planned to create 607 new jobs, of which 315 are for program participants.
the implementation of the national transport strategy is aimed not only at repairing roads, but also at creating a single transport and logistics system, "he said.
Deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state departments of the country, interethnic organizations, non-governmental and business structures were invited as guests of the festival.
In addition, the rector noted the high significance of the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
In addition, in 2015, at the 70th session of the General Assembly, an international initiative was voiced to counter terrorism and "peace. XXI century, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
following the meeting of k.masim and e.boniz. agreed to further strengthen bilateral and multilateral relations.
In particular, on the basis of a tractor plant in the Ordabasinsky district, it is planned to produce auxiliary equipment, such as machine-tractor units, seeds, loose, spraying, irrigation machines, scattering mineral fertilizers and product collection technology.
more than 25 employers in the field of services, education, health organizations, construction companies, hotels, fleets, internal affairs bodies.
we are talking about an incident with the emergence of the Karglian state.
The event was attended by prominent public and political figures, representatives of the business center and garden representatives of the kingdom, including court chairmen, deputy mayors, representatives of the large Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Morocco, as well as a strong aria accompanying the Kazakh Embassy in Morocco.
D.Akishev noted that measures to finance the real sector of the economy should have a positive impact on the country's development rate.
in development we use Chinese, Vietnamese technologies.
The main goal of the development of parliamentarism in Kazakhstan is the creation of a new model of Kazakhstan's democracy.
they represent a united identity of independence. "
in order to provide state support to cultural and art workers who have been awarded honorary titles and state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as for their contribution to the formation, preservation and development of the culture of Kazakhstan of especially gifted creative youth.
annual devaluation, despite inflation, the amount remains unchanged, the number of services to small and medium-sized businesses is growing.
Because Kazakhstan from the moment of gaining sovereignty began to develop freely, relying on other countries, "he said.
the new law "on agricultural cooperatives" gives cooperatives freedom of choice.
This technological provision was agreed with the Committee of State Environmental Regulation, Control and State Inspection of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the oil and gas sector and the Committee on Shared Construction and Management of Housing and Communal Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It is clear that the work of the leadership of Kazakhstan in this direction is successful.
proposed by the head of Kazakhstan "peace. XXI century, "- said V. Magas.
Of course, this will allow us to further strengthen trade and economic cooperation, "said K. Bishimbayev.
In May last year, the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" was announced, "said D. Nazarbayev.
I, Nursultan Abishevich, thank you for this mission, your trust.
we try to attract active youth, active population. we are trying to attract more young people .
Abdikalikova noted that issues of gender equality and advancement of women are closely related to the main issues of the global agenda, such as the strengthening of peace and security, sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions to improve the activities of state audit and financial control bodies.
The rapporteur also spoke about the status of a number of issues, such as vocational training, referral to social jobs, training of applicants for microcredit on the basics of entrepreneurship.
at the same time, the price of housing 1 square meter does not exceed 200 thousand tenge per diamond.
The district has developed design and estimate documentation for the construction of 4 new facilities: 50 in the village of Koktobe, schools for 50 places in the village of Koktobe, the construction of engineering infrastructure in the village of Sortobe, the reconstruction of the water supply system in a prosperous village, "the akim of the district said.
Everything that we plan will be implemented, "he said.
our ethnocultural association fully welcomes early parliamentary elections. our ethno-cultural association fully supports the decision to hold snap parliamentary elections .
these awards are a recognition of the world community of the head of our state.
that decision had prompted the leading nuclear Powers to declare a moratorium on nuclear testing.
According to him, during the implementation of the first five-year plan 137 projects worth 183.9 billion tenge were launched, 11.2 thousand jobs were created.
in this regard, we are taking a decision related to the revision of the macro-parameters of our country's development.
all this is the direction of the Expo 2017 exhibition, "the veteran concluded.
the sides discussed joint projects successfully implemented in various spheres of cooperation.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has formed a developed government system. nowadays we see that during the independence kazakhstan has managed to create a developed , functioning parliamentary system .
Nine-gumalak is a traditional Kazakh national game.
Let's remind, the train "The M G_l_k Ate" began the trip across Kazakhstan on February 15.
According to A. Yessimov, today 70 foreign countries have confirmed their participation in the exhibition, 35 of them are developed countries.
of them 27 public institutions, 16 private kindergartens.
The main goal of the project is to promote the region through the development of a green economy.
As you know, the history of statehood has deep roots, "said the deputy of the Majilis of parliament.
Vladimir Filippov thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his attention to the development of humanitarian cooperation between our countries, as well as the creation of favorable conditions for full academic interaction between universities of Kazakhstan and Russia.
specialists of the employment center advise on the possibility of retraining and mastering a new specialty.
citizens will be able to enjoy national dishes, play national games, attend a festive concert, which will be presented by the creative teams of the capital.
photo from the site imp.rudn.ru
photo: publicpolicy.kz
Kazakhstan has the opportunity to work well and strive for great successes, "said Vytautas Nauduzhas.
when we ask for housing and transportation prices, they talk in rubles.
In this regard, the forum held a meeting with well-known scientists, economists and politicians.
the survival program was divided into three weeks.
mistakes are not a big problem. the number of violations insignificant .
The service and procurement centers include 5 rural production cooperatives, 3 agricultural enterprises and 1 other participant.
new deputies with their new ideas can give additional impetus to the government, "the expert said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and R. reviewed the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the President of Turkey to Kazakhstan in April last year.
Considering that our country closed the test site and abandoned the largest nuclear arsenal, such a next meeting may take place in Kazakhstan, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is a threat - a devastating war of a global scale, "said the head of state.
the document lays down seven pillars of the eternal country: national unity, peace and harmony, a secular state and the supreme clergy, sustainable economic growth based on innovation, a common labor society, the integrity of history, culture and language, Kazakhstan's participation in solving global and regional issues.
this holiday means the end of crops and the beginning of haymaking. this holiday marks the end of sowing and beginning of mowing .
Kazakhstanis showed the integrity of one house as a child.
for example, I was told that it is possible to combine "Kazakh language and literature," grammar of literature and the Russian language, history and geography.
The Minister noted that within two years the entire law enforcement system of the country has been working on a new model of criminal proceedings.
we have a large agricultural sector. we have a huge agricultural sector .
may your new settlements be filled with good and joy! " said a. Jaksybekov.
The participants of the meeting also discussed the participation of investors in the country's economy and the possibility of expanding mutually beneficial cooperation within the framework of the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition, the creation of an international financial center in the capital on its basis.
- Secretary of the centrist party of dusembins;
According to the organizers, educational events for schoolchildren were held last year together with the EU representative office in Kazakhstan and the education department of the akimat of the capital.
photo from the site iph.kz
Unprecedented measures of state support for the rural population are being taken to stimulate agriculture. unprecedented measures of the state support for the villagers are taken in order to stimulate the agricultural sector .
The special report was presented by the Ambassador of Spain on special assignments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the curator of the Central Asian center manuel larrotcha, the representative of the European commission dimitri barua, the professor of the university san pablo josé luis orea, the director general of maranta international consulting alberto pascual, the director of the department for European and African companies josé maria alvarez.
we think in one direction, "concluded the official representative of the Scandinavian state.
diphtheria leads to many complications, unlike other infectious diseases: heart nausea, airways and diaphragm, soft sampling, paralysis of the face, neck, physique and limbs.
As you know, on October 6, 2014, the head of state launched a program for the transformation of the fund.
a new specialized price was a gift for car owners of the city of Aktobe.
The guests praised the prospects of further economic development of the city, noting that the joint business projects of the two countries are of great importance not only economically, but also socially, "the press service of the akimat reported.
The President of Kazakhstan was shown new samples of the plant's products and presented the technological process of oil equipment production.
this is a sphere of public administration based on the experience of our cooperation with developed countries, which today has and uses a digital strategy. based on the experience of our cooperation with the developed countries , which have and implement a digital strategy in the area of governance , we understand that the key aspect , around which an effective transparent public administration is created , is the consumer-oriented public services , " he has explained .
acquisition of equipment for the loan received, completion of construction and replenishment of working capital.
recently, the entrepreneur ordered the creation of social jobs covering 3 people under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020."
According to him, four issues are considered on the agenda of the national commission.
Thus, over 5 years, $17.6 billion of foreign direct investment has been attracted to the manufacturing sector.
Within the framework of the memorandum between Karim LLP and Almalinsky district in 2016-2017. It is planned to build 2 kindergartens for 150 places.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan welcomes the agreement between Russia and Russia on a ceasefire in Syria.
this is an experience for the younger generation, "he said.
comprehensive support from all sides was provided by my intentions for the deep modernization of Kazakhstan as a whole.
has two important objectives for regulating migration processes.
Today, Kazakhstan has issued more than 10 million ethnic groups, of which about 4.5 million are registered for citizens' identity cards, "the vice minister added.
all - for athenage in the country. refinery today is the unique advanced enterprise .
the rest are raw materials, "said M. Mazhitov.
Thus, according to the expert, the implementation of 59 steps by 2020 will reduce energy efficiency to 25%.
reduction from 6 to 3 million tons per year and return to circulation of secondary raw materials in the amount of at least 46 billion tenge, "the minister said.
A specific outcome of the general conference for Kazakhstan was the signing of an administrative agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and UNIDO on earmarked contributions to the industrial development fund.
This year, our architectural group has achieved a number of ancient excavations.
Within the framework of the implementation of state programs, great attention is paid to these areas.
As for parliament, the emergence of new people with new tasks and tasks will give impetus to solving economic problems.
In 2016, in the Saryarka area, as part of this program, 11 houses, including 5 houses, were overhauled, 4 houses were repaired, and elevators in two houses were replaced.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the main duty of a woman is motherhood.
And now Kazakhstan has a clear plan to overcome new global challenges.
in turn, political adviser, economist (Great Britain) noted that the most amazing gift of the government is to make its people a generous and key player in the international community.
the solution proposed by Kazagro involves the unification of grain producers on the principles of cooperation and solidarity responsibility.
Nazarbayev is a leader who can help Kazakhstan overcome the global and regional crisis.
Among them are the construction of a multifunctional complex of abu dhabi plaza in Astana, the Islamic bank al-hilal and the joint investment fund falah, which first began its activities in the CIS and Kazakhstan.
the center will conduct training on the protection, control and accounting of materials in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, training on countering illegal trafficking in nuclear and other radioactive materials.
land will become the main economic asset of our citizens, which will increase labor productivity in the countryside.
this article takes into account the right to submit to the Security Council any matter that threatens, in the opinion of the Secretary-General, the maintenance of international peace and security.
The event was attended by the head of the erik sultans region and the president of the Aiju hei jia company.
we are now talking about the main problem, that is, transport.
We must also be far from increasing the number of events, the most important criterion is to reach the population with a mass population, "said the Secretary of State.
the principle of the Kazakh leader: multinational composition - wealth, strategic resource of Kazakhstan.
Among the main tasks of the working trip of the Kazakh Foreign Minister to New York is to promote Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-18 and familiarize the international community with the priorities of our state in the work within this authoritative body.
By the order of the head of state of the Aruns, the Marchat Daniyarovich was appointed director of the government communications service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who was relieved of his temporary duties as director of the government communications service of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the press service of the akorda reports.
mentors from among successful and experienced entrepreneurs will also be involved on a return basis for the successful implementation and development of the projects of the participants.
that is, the enterprise is open, the area of ​ ​ information knows about it, and a potential buyer sees that such an enterprise has appeared in Kazakhstan, "he said.
In addition, the board approved the recommendation "on the equipment and application of the inspection and verification complex of checkpoints through the customs post of the Eurasian Economic Union."
I think that early elections to the Majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels will contribute to improving the state of the economy. i think that snap elections in the majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels will help kazakhstan to quickly get out of the current economic situation .
Eurasian technological platform is the core of innovative infrastructure and allows creating promising commercial technologies, obtaining high-tech, innovative and competitive products based on the participation of business, science, the state, and public organizations.
Kazakhstanis can talk about this openly.
In general, according to him, macroeconomic and social indicators show economic growth in the region regardless of its condition
The Kazakhstan electrolysis plant was also visited by foreign guests, first of all, in the aluminum electroexpertiza workshop.
respondents also chose the need for systemic measures in the fight against corruption, "he said.
unity is stability, prosperity, "he said.
also discussed the areas of work for the further development of the military structure of the organization.
This pace was primarily due to the decision to increase the research and scientific potential of the program with the introduction of a new model for teaching doctoral students split phd, "he said.
As part of the FIID program, 5 investment projects worth 925 million tenge will be implemented this year as part of the industrial map program, 4 projects are planned to be launched by the end of the year.
In addition, S. Kulagin noted that the akimat of Akmola region and the Israeli company "all energy ltd" signed a memorandum on construction in Kokshetau.
in the same year, Kazakhstan ratified the agreement on the creation of this fund and the agreement on the management of its funds.
Vice Minister noted that the new state program is aimed at the development of domestic health care.
According to the minister, the government has now moved to an active policy to attract foreign direct investors.
the company is developing a "ready service" solution for terrestrial and satellite communications, which will increase productivity and minimize operating costs.
it has become a massive terrorist aggression against countries in Europe, Asia and Africa.
The format that will be presented in our program, in our opinion, will be a special program.
provision of benefits depending on the situation, obligation on local content of goods, works and services. there are many support measures for subsoil users : conditional discounts , obligations on local content , works and services .
I believe that in Lithuania, not only in Lithuania, but throughout the country there is increased respect for the President of Kazakhstan. in my opinion , president n.nazarbayev is respected in lithuania , and the rest of the world .
visitors to the Kazakhstan Space Visit pavilion will be able to get the necessary information about the subsystem and remote sensing of the Earth.
cost of the project implemented by Apk Reserve LLP 3.5 billion tenge.
The plan will be implemented within two years.
dear compatriots!
The company's work in the production of polypropylene utensils is a new project for our region.
In 2014, the lobster bill entrepreneur under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" received a preferential loan of 3 million tenge and opened a workshop for the production of semi-finished products with a capacity of 200 kg per day in the village of Balkashino.
the number of cattle of herford seeds is 1,700 heads.
Our goal is to update educational programs in all colleges by 2019, the minister said.
I am also looking forward to the start of the winter universiade, "said Matyaz Pechovnik.
According to the federation, 50-60 representatives of the German national team are expected to participate in competitions in Almaty.
In his speech, the Secretary of State noted that all the central state and local executive bodies began a report to the head of state on the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," as well as the concept of strengthening and developing Kazakhstan's identity and unity, which will be presented at the forum of the people of Kazakhstan and at the xxiv session of the HA in April this year.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan, the business community, farms, as well as experts and scientists in the agricultural sector.
I want to appeal to all sectors of entrepreneurs, to all wealthy Kazakhstanis, to all businessmen and business people.
our society must develop ethical standards, especially so as not to cause an interreligious dispute, "he said.
I want to note that when Kazakhstan became an independent state, conditions were created for the whole people. "
As part of the forum, four field sessions are expected, where more than 200 scientists and researchers from Turkic-speaking states, as well as Germany, Japan, China, South Korea, Russia and the United Kingdom, will share their thoughts.
a promising intergovernmental organization will make it possible to use the research infrastructure, knowledge and history of scientists of other countries created in Dubna in participating state institutions. as an intergovernmental organization , the jinr provides the states parties to use the opportunity created in dubna , the unique research infrastructure , the knowledge and experience of scientists from other countries .
the largest number of vacancies falls on middle-level qualifications - 2.1 thousand highly qualified workers and small industrial organizations, 2.1 thousand vacancies in construction, transport, communications, geology and exploration.
We are very grateful to the president, who demonstrated his art on stage and created the conditions for leading our lives, "said Musakozhaeva.
for example, the production of frames of reinforced concrete products and panel house building, "he said.
Thus, the active work of the museum, the museum fund last year transferred the organizational and legal form from the state institution to the state enterprise. so , in order to stimulate the activity of museums , open-air museums last year we changed the organizational and legal form : a public institution in a state-owned enterprise .
thanks to him, the state regulates foreign trade.
During the meeting, the draft laws "On Collection Activities," "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Collection Activities," as well as the main provisions of the Land Code were discussed.
Cooperation with the greentech center is especially important in the framework of the creation of the "green technology" center and UN investment projects in the capital.
The chief executive officer of the business (ahco) shared a number of ideas for the development of the capital as an international financial center.
According to him, students load at the factory, and 40% study at college.
draft laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on environmental issues and "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on employment issues" are considered in the first reading.
At the end of the event, memoranda of cooperation between Kazakh and Russian companies were signed.
the initial capital of the Kazakh-Hungarian fund amounted to $40 million.
they applied for accounting, legal, and mrketing advice.
the tenth participant of the program did not meet the requirements of the "recommended by expo-2017" affiliate program of Astana.
This evening, the heads of diplomatic missions and consulates general at the UN, the secretariat of the United Nations, international organizations and representatives of the New York expert, business and socio-political community gathered at the Lincoln Center.
people began to move quickly. people have become more active .
Senate deputies fully supported the president's proposal and unanimously agreed to appoint Vladimir Zhumakanov to the post of chairman of the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the first reading considered the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of precious metals and precious stones."
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that it is absolutely absurd for the countries of the Islamic world to compete with mass weapons, especially in violation of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime.
This web resource provides all information about political parties that have nominated their candidates for the election of deputies of the Majilis, election campaign news, and a block of opinion polls.
The strong financial sector of Kazakhstan will not only provide inexpensive borrowed capital, but will also direct the country's huge natural resource fund to implement large-scale economic reforms, will allow developing all sectors of the economy, introducing various innovative mechanisms, "he said.
According to the national company, when submitting all the necessary and necessary documents, the order will be considered within 1-2 days.
He noted that this law provides significant opportunities for business.
In addition, the parties touched upon the issues of further development of the port of rehabilitation, noting among the key areas of cooperation transport, transit, tourism and media.
the new product was successfully tested at the Kazakhstan Electrolysis Plant, the country's first aluminum producer.
the visit of the President of Russia to our country showed the stability and strength of our traditional good-neighbourly relations and the development of economic integration.
Efforts will also be made this year to attract investment and increase additional economic growth.
One of the organizers of the event is the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Warsaw.
To date, the Ministry has strengthened cooperation with the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs to provide vacancies.
all these years we are reliable partners of our republic. for all these years , the ebrd has been a good partner for our country .
Therefore, the Central Election Commission, together with the subjects of the entire electoral process, parties, candidates, gardens, the prosecutor general's office, and the authorized body, will strictly monitor the absence of violations in campaigning, "he said.
social spending in the reporting year increased to 7 percent of gross domestic product and amounted to 2.8 trillion tenge. in 2015 , the social spending was increased to 7 % in kazakhstan 's gdp and amounted to 2.8 trillion tenge .
Gulshara Abdykalikova noted the importance of strategic partnership between the parties in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons, democratic track, energy, trade, economic, humanitarian cooperation and other leading areas.
kiosh unites all spheres of human activity in 2016, but this year with a high level of professional risk, special attention will be paid to the oil and gas industry, coal and mining, chemical, nuclear, energy and construction.
Last year, we completed the WTO accession process and are full members. last year , we completed the accession to the wto .
March 16 will be held various flash mobs called "spring noise," concerts with the participation of teenagers.
this equipment will allow training and retraining of flight personnel in all main tasks related to aerobatics and navigation, "said the instructor of the initial training, Andrey Feofanov.
It should be noted that Kazakhstan ranks 40th among 143 countries of the world in the system index of the World Economic Forum.
we are entering a new and responsible stage in the development of the country, and only by strengthening its unity and integrity will we be able to protect our achievements and bring our homeland to new frontiers of development.
in creative work, we became a single people, creating a successful, established and endowed state to the world.
The work put forward for the al-Farabi Prize should have an economic and social effect for the people of Kazakhstan, "said T.Balykbaev.
by law:
Kazakhstan is pursuing an open and stable policy as an important step towards attracting maximum investments. kazakhstan has a policy of maximum transparency and stability , which is the key attraction of investments in kazakhstan .
participants of the meeting discussed the main directions of the development of the Kazakh economy, the implementation of state programs, as well as measures taken to strengthen cooperation with the countries of the European Union, taking advantage of membership in the world trade organization.
Note that this year military sports games are held for the second time.
photo from the site www.asiakz.com
As a result, only processed products will be delivered to the foreign market, "the akim of the region said.
According to the commander of the unit, our country is in the right direction.
According to him, small and medium-sized businesses, as well as individual entrepreneurs, receive concrete assistance from the "development" program and maintain stability in the new economic conditions.
The conference participants paid special attention to the adaptation of infrastructure for citizens with disabilities, as well as shared their experience in developing inclusive education, ensuring the employment of persons with disabilities, and improving their quality of life.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee according to the estimates in February 2016 amounted to 127004 tenge.
knowledge of the language primarily affects the intellectual development of a person, influences his professional and cultural development. knowledge of the language extends opportunities , intellectual , professional , cultural development .
In turn, high-quality legislative support is needed for the country's economic growth, "said A. Zhayylganova.
This is due to the creation of 11.2 thousand new jobs, in the last 9 months of last year the volume of production reached 380.4 billion tenge.
the parties exchanged views on the most relevant international issues on the agenda.
As noted, "the registration of voter lists continues.
Kazakhstan sets large-scale goals.
Expo is a great opportunity for Switzerland to show the world its work in the field of energy saving and green technologies. expo - great opportunity for switzerland to show the achievements of the country in the sphere of energy efficiency and green technologies .
The forthcoming forum is being held in direct participation and partnership in the Boao forum of Asian countries, which is an international forum bringing together representatives of governments, business and academia in Asia and other continents to discuss issues of economic intensity in Asia and peace.
these are non-resource and commodity achievements.
Because we need young and qualified specialists, and there is no country in the world to do this, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to ensure the implementation of the law "On State Audit and Financial Control" adopted last year and an effective transition to state audit.
To date, the entire composition of the commission has been formed, "A. Sabyrkhanova said.
visits of the head of state to Russia, China, Great Britain and France.
consulting advice and practical support for project graduates on the creation and development of business, the development of a business plan, registration as a business entity, application for financial instruments of the Development Fund on loans from second-level banks and preparation of documents.
our clinic will be engaged in providing EXPO-2017, and we are trying to master modern technologies in foreign languages, "said V. Benberin.
In 2015, when 2 trillion 800 billion tenge was taken for control, it turned out that 1 trillion 300 million tenge was illegally spent, which is 3 times more than in 2014.
borrowed funds will support the main priorities of the country's socio-economic development and implement the government's strategic measures to stimulate the economy and promote economic growth.
The process of establishing a regional security system has accelerated.
The issue related to the visa is being considered by the investment committee, including in relation to the Chinese, "he said.
The processes taking place in the economy occur not only in us, but also in all countries of the world.
Investing in women is one of the most favorable and effective, "he said.
The new product will provide detailed information about upcoming exhibitions and events.
every Kazakhstani should be aware of the tasks set by the president with his heart and body, "he said.
In this regard, it is now necessary to intensify the negotiation process with the European region and neighboring States. in this regard , we need to intensify the negotiation process with the european area and neighboring states .
Kazakhstan's new dream
in addition, the exhibits will be included in a special list and sent to a field exhibition throughout Kazakhstan and abroad.
Our important task is to quickly stabilize the financial system, bringing it into a new global real situation.
in this regard, I urge all participants to take this opportunity, and you have the opportunity to show your scientific and technological, intellectual, architectural and design values ​ ​ on the topic "the strength of the future," said A. Yessimov.
At this meeting in Washington, the results of the work done in the world after the previous Seoul summit were summed up. the results of the work done after the previous seoul summit were summed up at the meeting in washington .
According to the minister, in the next two years, work will continue on the transformation of the Samruk-Kazyna National Welfare Fund.
The main direction of this reform is the formation of a professional state apparatus, "said I. Akhmetov.
building confidence in the national currency through the expansion of de-dollarization instruments.
The awareness-raising work of employees of ministries and CSPs had a very great impact, "Akzam Sembayev told train representatives.
the next stage we plan to develop jewelry production, "he said.
In addition, Christmas trees with various festive programs are held in all cultural institutions and in the Palace of schoolchildren.
there is little electricity generation in Almaty, there is a shortage, but there is no deficit, "he said.
According to the global competitiveness assessment report of the World Economic Forum for 2015-2016, Kazakhstan's rating is estimated at 4.5 points, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
As the head of state noted, the legislation of the republic allowed any nationality to enter the public service.
broiler meat is exported not only to the domestic market, but also to neighboring Russia, "said Rakhat Sydykov.
in such world conditions, the geopolitics of Kazakhstan need a permanent civilian structure.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that despite the geographical gap, both countries have great opportunities for the development of the transport and transit network.
The life expectancy of Kazakhstanis increased from 64 to 72 years, which is one of the most important indicators.
the new workshop can take up to 40 tons of milk per day.
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the anti-crisis measures applied by Kazakhstan will not matter to other states.
During the meeting, the Deputy Head of the State Revenue Committee introduced the meeting participants to the technologies of state control on the principle of "one window" in the port of rehabilitation of the Ottoman emir.
The head of the department noted that of 554.5 billion tenge 360 billion tenge was transferred in 2016, 3 billion. The tenge is directed to implementation of the state program "Nrla zhol" for 2017.
To accelerate the implementation of key infrastructure projects, the state program "Nұrly zhol" provides for the attraction of additional funds.
lower oil prices force Kazakhstan to consider goals and consider its efforts in other sectors of the economy, "the expert said.
and industrial, agro-industrial, innovative cooperation has good potential, "he said.
in addition, university students have the opportunity to use the material, technical and experimental base of the Ugzto AK (astronomical observatory) to obtain practical knowledge and skills.
The main topics on the agenda of the meeting were the rule of law, the management and reform of the judicial system, migration and border management, drug trafficking, the fight against money laundering, corruption and terrorism.
At the same time, the share of investments in the region amounted to 104.8%.
Kim Roman Uhenovich - Chairman of the organization "Korean Association in Kazakhstan," member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the V convocation.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of joint work on the development of telecommunications and the space industry at the Baikonur complex.
dear brother!
According to the ambassador, it is planned to continue the state educational program with the Afghan Islamic Republic.
- How do you assess the ideological doctrine of Kazakhstan proposed by the President of Kazakhstan.
all ineffective tax rules have been distributed so far. we should cancel all the inefficient tax rules .
20.3 thousand citizens are provided with social jobs within the framework of youth practice.
developing in Almaty region, Alma-Ata, South Kazakhstan region.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov took part in the conference, where he congratulated diplomats on the opening of a new association.
Despite the difficult economic situation, all production of the corporation works steadily, "said baktiyar Krykpyshev, chairman of the board of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP.
Akim noted that entrepreneurs receive assistance from the state to create such kindergartens twice, subsidized the volume of loans and receive support under the chicken program.
I am sure that the public council of Almaty region will make an important contribution to the development of the region, improving the well-being of the population. "
the Arab side expressed its desire to contribute to the development of food industry, logistics, construction and energy in Almaty.
According to Mytishchi, every year 25-30 thousand jobs provided by employers remain free from the incompetence of specialists.
We completely reviewed this situation and came to a decision, "said B.Baibek.
This year there will be graduates of the first students in the specialty of massage.
the crisis narrows the possibilities of Kazakh-Hungarian economic relations.
then, our cultures, the history of language will help them quickly adapt to our side.
At the meeting with the President of the Global Women's Summit, Natividad considered the issues of strengthening the role of women in the socio-economic development of countries, improving their status and increasing participation in decision-making.
alikhan bokeikhanov is the founder and leader of the "alash," whose main goal was the creation of an independent Kazakh state.
Figure: zhaikpress.kz
It should be noted that in accordance with the 79th step of the National Plan, 100 concrete steps will be implemented the Roadmap for the development of trilingual education of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2020.
During the meeting, the leadership of the Torpedo hockey club informed about the work carried out at the club.
in the armwrestling championship, servicemen of the regional command "south" took first place, airmobile troops - second place, the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications - third place.
Our main goal is to preserve peace and harmony, develop our native language and traditions, "he said, addressing the Kazakh team.
however, the space of authority of Kazakhstan is quite wide.
The participants of the competition are citizens of Kazakhstan aged 18 to 40 years. the citizens of kazakhstan , at the age of 18 to 40 years , can become the participants of the contest .
The new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and the Chinese initiative "Economic Belt of the Silk Road" are favorable conditions for enterprises participating in the program of industrialization and investment between the two countries, as well as working as an extension of new areas of practical cooperation.
systemic interaction between the two countries will increase security and economic activity.
It is worth noting that a few years ago, Kazteleradio rented a frequency resource of the broadcasting network from a network of foreign white intelsat operators.
we will save money for these purposes after optimizing budget expenditures.
when it comes to the supply and procurement of new weapons or the modernization of old ones, we first of all consider the capabilities of our Kazakhstani enterprises, "he said.
in many countries, the policy of attracting foreign scientists without the admission of scientists is actively pursued. many countries conduct an active policy to prevent " brain drain , " to attract scientists from abroad .
Also, xgto projects supported in the field of ecology and health care were used to eliminate the fukusimo disaster in Japan.
In 2009, at the initiative of the head of our state, an educational program was signed. the educational program was signed in 2009 at the initiative of the head of state .
Head of the secretariat of the Commissioner of EXPO 2017, citizen Abdraimov noted that the main goal of Kazakhstan's participation in these forums is the country's transition to a green economy and the presentation of the EXPO topic "energy of the future."
Kazakhstan's membership in the Eurasian Economic Union will allow Iranian companies to trade with other countries of the union without customs duties.
Timur Zhaksylykov noted that trade and economic cooperation with Indonesia is of particular interest to Kazakhstan and its business group.
During the meeting, the heads of defense departments exchanged views on topical issues of international and regional security, noting the high level of mutual understanding between the Shu countries in this area.
The head of state drew attention to the need to implement all promising projects in the field of energy, including such as the launch of the Kashagan field, the expansion of the offshore field, the second stage of the expansion of the Karachaganak field.
This document was implemented in the Space and Environmental Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan "sic" in the practice of space transportation at the Baikonur space site.
we have carefully reviewed the ecu/diakb statement on preliminary findings and conclusions. we familiarized with the statement of the mission about the early parliamentary elections in kazakhstan .
these tasks stimulate the development of infrastructure for individual waste collection, processing, waste management.
The Commissioner of the German Federal Government for Immigrants and Minorities thanks Nursultan Nazarbayev for supporting fruitful cooperation for the benefit of representatives of the German diaspora in Kazakhstan.
According to the minister, from the first days of independence, the head of state pays special attention to the state of women and their equality with men.
to do this, we must use two effective tools - large-scale privatization and increased competition.
11 citizens are represented in the regional maslikhat, 38 in the city, 106 in the district.
Also this year marks the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
our roots go back to the 19th century. "
In addition, according to him, in 2015 four new productions were introduced with the participation of anchor investors and transnational corporations.
The People's Communist Party of Kazakhstan and the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Way" gained approximately the same number of votes.
As Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom Uak Askar Zhumagaliyev noted, "the partnership of kazatomprom and kameko over the years has become an example of establishing mutually beneficial and fruitful business relations.
the minister informed B. Fletz. on the successful implementation of political investors in human capital, the creation of a national commission to modernize 5 institutional reforms in Kazakhstan, as well as the creation of a highly qualified government, ensuring high legality, increasing the diversification of the government's economy and accounting.
In the field of education, work is under way to develop and adopt new harmonized standards for pre-school and school education.
1.5 billion tenge will be allocated for targeted assistance to low-income families under social contracts. 1.5 billion tenge is allocated for the provision of targeted assistance to needy families through the social contracts in 2016 .
Strategy-2050, "directed by the head of state to the people, as part of the implementation of the order to ensure the legal protection of our citizens abroad, ensuring their personal and business interest.
this is a grant from the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for a preliminary operation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that today the deputies face important tasks, on the successful implementation of which the well-being of Kazakhstanis depends.
the work of this institution contributes to the process of industrial and innovative development in Kazakhstan and thereby creates the basis for the transfer of German advanced technologies to the agro-industrial complex of the country.
the procedure for carrying out measures, as well as the timing of preparation, approval, changes in general sanitary and epidemiological and hygienic requirements and procedures.
According to b.vintants, they shoot an economic report and publish fox5n on the American television channel.
He also noted that funds will be provided for the accelerated implementation of infrastructure projects of the Nұrly Zhol program.
having defeated everyone, return to the country, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Kazkontent initiated this event.
it is a name that accurately gives the character of our good times and all the great achievements.
this is an indicator that includes 1% of the reserve of the total number of voters included in the lists, "said B. Meldeshov.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Justice of Kazakhstan, as well as the business community.
The head of state got acquainted with the work of the oil refinery.
these structures represent a full range of services for the entire region - they consult on the preparation of documents, the definition of an investment site, the selection of partners, obtaining licenses and permits.
You have completed 51 of 68 primary objects.
and in the aktobe and the West Kazakhstan region there was not a single material, "the minister said.
Recall that the presidential elections held at the beginning of this year showed that we are successfully turning into a nation of a single future, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Structure of freight transport. the structure of freight traffic is being changed .
every year, new training programs are processed and introduced in military universities of the country.
As part of the industrialization program, the share of Kazakh content in the construction industry has increased.
At present, new approaches to providing targeted state support to low-income families are being implemented. at the present time , the work is continued to implement our new approach of providing low-income families targeted state support .
new people should come to the meeting.
The ministry plans to develop a special roadmap in the field of culture and sports for business development, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
"We signed a contract with them earlier this year," said Iskakov, director of Ball Textiles.
at the same time, a glass factory is being built.
Also, in 1-2 days, peasants will be allocated funds on the collateral of money.
In addition, in connection with the rich Austrian experience in the field of renewable energy, Austrian leaders confirmed their interest in participating in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Chairman - President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.
for 48 water supply projects - 22.4 billion tenge, for 20 water disposal projects - 10.5 billion tenge, for 31 heat supply projects - 44.2 billion tenge, "he said.
on the other hand, the Vice Minister spoke about the development of export hope and noted the interest of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Afghanistan in Kazakhstan oil products.
7.5 trillion tenge was allocated for the implementation of projects in the Address.
The Singapore Foreign Ministry exchanged views on the upcoming bilateral cooperation and discussed the participation of the Singapore side in the expo 2017.
the results of the study will be available to partner countries. "
half of the funding is used in Kazakhstan in local currency.
our party does not have the right to hold the position of observer while abroad. our party can 't stand aside and take the position of the observer .
All budget programmes are audited to optimize budget policy.
In this regard, we are working with large auto assembly enterprises, "said the representative of the National Chamber.
the presidents discussed the situation in the economy of the two countries, issues of cooperation within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union (Euraseo) and in a bilateral format.
Along with the main sectors of education, health care and road construction, the law provides for significant development in all sectors of the economy, with the exception of a specially protected natural area, a water facility (dam, waterworks), which is of special strategic importance, "said the Director of the Department of Budget Investments and Development of Public-Private Partnership of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
uber is known for its current simplicity, high security requirements, as well as the lack of cash payments.
According to him, this year people with disabilities take part in the "golden quality" competition.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Spain, which positively affects the strengthening of cooperation between the two states.
instead of all power plants.
only the new parliament can fulfill the goals set by the president.
In total, 100 subsoil areas are fixed, of which 27 are for production and 73 for exploration.
The Armenian delegation was headed by the Deputy Foreign Minister of Armenia Shavarsh Kocharyan.
photo from the public organization "obereg"
One of the most important functions of the Ministry is the legal examination of by-laws, the state registration of regulatory legal acts of the central and local authorities. one of the important activities of the ministry is the legal review by-laws , the state registration of normative legal acts of central and local bodies .
It is worth noting that the main volume of investments - 294.7 billion tenge or 74.4% - was carried out for extrabudgetary funds.
we have a goal to make Kazakhstan competitive. we have the main target - to make kazakhstan even more competitive .
As you know, changes are taking place in the global economy. as you know , global economic conditions are continuing to change .
During this time, the company increased its level of growth and gained wide fame in the region and throughout the country.
- Where are the polling stations?
this is a collection for those who do not participate in the plenary.
opening the meeting, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc" (RK) Adilkhan Arstanov spoke about the issues of loading domestic enterprises.
the asset portfolio also includes exploration projects in Australia and Mongolia, "the report said.
somewhere the best suppliers of sports goods and services, manufacturers, distributors, sports clubs and federations.
The event was attended by professors and teachers of Moscow universities, Russian scientists and experts, Kazakh students, graduate students, doctoral students and holders of scholarships of the Future program.
it has received high status as an official document from two world key bodies, such as the General Assembly and the Security Council.
in particular, in the field of industry - 1350, wholesale and retail trade, repair of cars and motorcycles - 3895, transport and warehousing - 1053, education and health - 2842, construction - 2498 and 5056 - of other types of economic activities.
the State and society should make their prescriptions in a timely and appropriate manner in order to reduce the crisis. the state and society should be ready to give timely and appropriate prescriptions to minimize the crisis .
for winter sports fans, ski skiing, snowboarding, sledges and cylinders are provided here, and in the summer - walking on a mountain bike, horse, as well as a pioneer ski camp and yurt accommodation.
remuneration of civil servants and remuneration of all public sector employees. the salaries of the civil servants and all workers in the public sector always depend on the actions and financial capacity of the state .
To this end, the akimat is ready to provide ready-made projects and land plots.
The volume of agricultural production in Kazakhstan amounted to 4.4%. the growth of agricultural production in kazakhstan reached 4.4 % .
According to the akim, at the company taita the pre-production price of social bread is 40 tenge, and the first grade - 620 grams of bread 52 tenge.
In turn, M. Mosman noted that the country is interested in the international exhibition, and emphasized the importance of this event for the whole world.
the purpose of the conference was to find opportunities to improve trade and investment conditions in order to strengthen economic ties from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
Working groups have been established under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Dariga Nazarbayeva.
In the city of Zhezkazgan, the construction of a kindergarten under the Balapan program continues.
Within the framework of the meeting, the parties signed a joint agreement, according to which the aul party and the Kazagro holding expressed their intention to continue cooperation in order to conduct joint measures aimed at improving the effectiveness of the country's agro-industrial complex, the standard of living of the rural population, as well as improving state support measures for agricultural producers and the rural population.
Also, according to him, meetings and round tables were carried out by financial market regulators and financial markets of partner countries.
From June 2007 to the present, he is Deputy Chairman of the National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, it is planned to consider topical issues of the work of the Eurasian Economic Union and discuss issues related to the development of its interaction in the field of trade with a number of states.
a total of 1,223 individual residential buildings, 108 apartment buildings and 12 dormitories were built, "the report said.
Following the meeting, the president of fisu oleg matytsin expressed confidence in the successful conduct of the competition and praised the work of the organizing committee.
The Chairman of the Federation Council of the Russian Federal Assembly thanked for the adoption and expressed his readiness to make every effort to further develop strategic and friendly relations between the two countries.
In general, we believe that yesterday's elections are organized very effectively, and there is progress in this area, "said Marietta, head of the ecu mission, which controls the parliamentary elections in Kazakhstan, at a press conference in the capital.
photo: ortcom.kz
we are interested in establishing cooperation between representatives of the business community of the Aktobe region and the Iranian state in order to increase exports and improve trade and economic relations, "Saparbayev emphasized.
You should not admit, no matter what difficult days there are, we defeat everyone together, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In the future, our company attracts investments, as well as develops new technologies and is replenished with a mineral resource base, "said Mr. Nurzhanov.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation in the trade and economic sphere between Mangistau region and Kazakhstan regions were discussed.
The seminar was attended by deputy chairmen of the national commission - deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, member of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan L. I. Tarasenko.
nurym ayazbaev explained that with the adoption of the PPP law, a mechanism of "competitive dialogue" is being introduced in Kazakhstan, when the state announces planned projects, and all interested parties can participate in the discussion and development of the project concept, competitive documentation and the draft equity agreement.
basically, they showed a team of high-performance nura stations, kandyagash, ushtobe, as well as a distance track, a wagon depot for the operation of flax, Pavlodar range, a mechanized distance of fortieth, a noise and communication signalling range, and a Lugov rail welding plant.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that participants need to interact in the fight against terrorism, "said the head of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, chairman of the Senate Parliament of Kazakhstan.
other areas increase their number.
sugar beets are essential for confectioners.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that Russia is the closest neighbor, economic and political ally and partner, and remains.
The State fully fulfils its social obligations while creating conditions for employment.
to that end, Governments needed the support of voters and their legitimacy.
dear Kazakhstanis, we need to create conditions for the party's participation in the majilis elections, the 17th leadership of the Nұr Otan party has become the basis of real achievements in the economy of the state and society, "the head of state said.
... "elections are held at the right and reasonable time.
The Senegalese side expressed gratitude for the fact that Kazakhstan supported its candidacy for non-permanent members of the United Nations Security Council for 2016-2017.
ratification of the agreement will allow to invite qualified specialists of transnational companies in the field of industrialization and development of innovative technologies, create favorable conditions for attracting investments, new technologies and knowledge and strengthen the international legal framework in order to intensify socio-economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Korea.
new representatives of the deputy corps.
I am grateful that its provisions are included in the final document of the summit, "the head of state said.
the universal supply plant, located in the city of Petropavlovsk, supplies lead companies with "stalk" and "micron."
According to the Minister, according to the decision of the National Fund Management Council, in the revenues of the national budget for 2016, the target transfer from the national fund in the amount of 807.5 billion tenge was taken into account, including 240.5 billion tenge will be additionally aimed at stimulating housing construction and accelerating the implementation of infrastructure projects in accordance with the instructions of the head of state.
This is a good trend, "he shared.
he also expressed his admiration for the Kazakh film motorographs.
A nuclear security summit was held in Washington, D.C., with the participation of about 50 heads of state and government.
The president of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the Eurasian national university will remain to some of the major scientific and educational institutions on training of qualified specialists for realization of the national patriotic idea also from now on "The m g_l_k Ate".
An important document was signed by the chairman of the Atameken board, Aulai Myrzakhmetov, and the vice president of Ktj uk erik Imashev.
Leaders and representatives of major industry associations and unions from Kazakhstan, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Lithuania, Russia and Ukraine arrived in the capital to participate in this event.
Earth civilization, according to scientists, survived more than 15 thousand wars, that is, every year 3 wars.
In turn, the Kazakh diplomat noted the need to strengthen the strategic partnership of the two countries in the political and economic spheres, noting that Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan can become quite the main locomotives in the region.
The First Deputy Prime Minister expressed interest in attracting American companies to implement projects within the framework of the second stage of industrialization.
a feature of the current aefa can be called the organization of the first Kazakhstan forum on privatization, which should determine new opportunities for investing in the main sector of the economy of central Asia, including Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by members of the Majilis, heads of ministries of national economy, finance, leaders and members of factions of the Nұr Otan party in maslikhats, representatives of local executive bodies.
this will lead to the death of all mankind.
they create new decent conditions for the development of the country, economic growth and improvement of the life of all Kazakhstanis, consistent with the standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, uniting the most developed states of the planet.
For this, we invite international observers and foreign gardeners to the presidential, parliamentary elections and republican referendums, "said T. Okhlopkova.
there is growth in many manufacturing sectors, "the President assured.
The Astana Economic Forum has become the main platform for dialogue between economists, politicians and other specialists from around the world. astana economic forum has become one of the main platform for communication of economists , politicians and other professionals around the world .
it is also considered a national exit poll and covers all areas.
Since the beginning of 2016, 22 investors have been provided with advisory services at the PSC.
new jobs have been created.
According to him, according to the results of the events, more than 400 domestic enterprises were involved and exports worth $35 million were organized.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the Council of Foreign Investors was created with the participation of the EBRD.
As part of the Nұrly zhol program, engineering infrastructure is being modernized in two areas in cities and districts of the East Kazakhstan region.
more funds are allocated in the budget for the programme of pre-school education and chicken education for 2010-2020.
in addition, Kim held a working meeting with Bulgarian parliamentarians, during which they discussed issues of bilateral cooperation and the formation of an inter-parliamentary dialogue.
- In recent years, the CIS has made progress in multilateral integration.
In addition, the director of the white department of Astana Expo-2017 noted the work of construction this year.
Almaty will become the first city among the CIS countries to host international student winter games.
everyone should understand that the "hot spot" is Syria.
this is done for the bank, charitable assistance. a databank is being created for those who are in need of charitable assistance , a special " metsenat.kz " portal is created .
now we have begun a comprehensive selection of student athletes. at the moment we are at the stage of determination of the athletes who will participate in the universiade .
during the meeting, the presentation of three projects took place.
According to the ministry, the meeting was attended by heads of internal policy departments of the regions, cities of Astana and Almaty, as well as regional secretariats of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the role of the nomad of the nation is in bringing together all plants, factories, the enterprises in "one fist" and to attract foreign investors.
I wish your country all the best, further success in domestic and foreign policy!
photo: www.kmg.kz
The holiday of the khanate has become the property of the people, "the letter says.
The forum was attended by about three thousand representatives of youth from all regions of the country.
Recall that the national team of Kazakhstan won four medals: one silver and three bronze.
By the decision of the Presidential Council for Mining and Metallurgical Activities on December 5, 2013, he was appointed operator for the implementation of the white investment and strategic project "Mining Samruk."
- The executive bodies are working to clarify the voter lists.
l. ramazanova noted that the Atameken party provides assistance to women free of charge. "
Kassymov reported on the modernization of penitentiary infrastructure as part of the development of public-private partnership, as well as on the activities of civil defense services, bodies involved in the prevention and prevention of emergencies.
today it is clear that he successfully survived all this, "the diplomat said.
we invited Georgian colleagues and they will share their work with us. we have invited the georgian colleagues , who share the experience with us .
we are interested in attracting foreign capital, as well as Turkey. we are interested in attracting foreign investment from turkey .
the chairman of the coordinating council is elected on the proposal of the members of the coordinating council, "he said.
The meeting discussed the issues of 9 companies working in the field of mechanical engineering, agriculture, design and construction of housing and civil facilities, the production of high-tech equipment, transport and communications, necessary for various industries.
At the meeting with the Attorney General of Cuba, the parties exchanged views on important issues of cooperation in the field of combating international organized crime, drug trafficking, extremism and terrorism.
the main tasks of the association of Kazakh diplomats are the implementation of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, the protection of the rights and interests of members of the association and the strengthening of the continuity of Kazakh diplomats between generations.
we recently got acquainted with the world rating. recently we have got acquainted with the world rating world university ranking and enu entered the top 400 successful universities and took the 371st place .
as evidence of this, the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy can be obtained.
these are changes that have occurred in 3-4 years.
the company mainly works on the side of information technology, telecommunications, communications, electronics.
During the meeting, we discussed our relations, and we will have parliamentary elections in winter, so we agreed on further cooperation.
Within the framework of the conference, negotiations were held and. Merkel with the leadership of the international association of prosecutors, the attorneys general of Albania, Cyprus, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Minister of Health and Social Development spoke on the second issue of the agenda.
Ahko's development strategy includes such main areas as the capital market, asset management, individual wealth management, Islamic financing and financial technologies.
the enterprise is located in the economic zone "capital - new city."
It is planned that during the month about 600 events dedicated to the preservation and strengthening of traditions and family values ​ ​ will be held in the region, "said Omar.
this is a big problem because we brought them.
the opportunity to preserve its "healthy circle" falls into natural resources, "the president said.
фото : tonyblairfaithfoundation.org
plans to invest in Kazakhstan and open joint ventures, "said B. Sagintayev.
Every point that the head of state spoke about should be strictly executed, "said the mayor of the capital, addressing all city government agencies.
Because using "green technologies" can save our planet, "he said. singh.
We do not expect any "miracles" from the Eurasian Economic Union, but integration cooperation will help us overcome existing difficulties, "the Russian president said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also presented with the projects and plans of the institution for a medium term.
he testifies to the recognition of our country as a full-fledged trade and economic partner.
It should be noted that "the implementation in the production of developments in the field of gold and lead metallurgy, which increased the status of Kazakhstan in the world technology market and made a significant contribution to the innovative development of the country" of the Committee for Industrial Development and Industrial Safety of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan "National Center of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the integrated processing of mineral raw materials" head laboratory of the branch of the republican state enterprise, candidate of chemical sciences - Lyudmila sergeevna Bolotova was awarded the 2015 State Prize in the field of science and technology named after al-Farabi.
The preparation period is May 27, 2016.
As you understand, tourism is created through assistance: jobs, high services, transport development, business, agriculture.
Representatives of more than 40 large enterprises of Kazakhstan and 150 largest Iranian corporations will take part in the business forum.
I welcome the circulation of Kazakhstan's parallel meeting. i fully support the decision to dissolute the majilis .
During the forum, it is planned to sign a memorandum of cooperation and understanding between the European group and the cluster of autonomous funds "Park of Innovative Technologies."
Just yesterday, we agreed with the President of Kazakhstan to hold it on an ongoing basis.
some provisions of the instrument enter into force on May 1, but in order for it to enter into full force, it is necessary to ratify all the 28 of EU member states. some provisions of the document will take effect from may 1 , but the agreement 's entry into force requires its ratification by all 28 eu member states .
It is planned to develop 41.7 billion tenge in this area by the end of 2016, "the minister said.
the plan of the nation of the head of state is the way to the Kazakh dream. "
In 2016, the share of social spending increased to 40%.
plant for the production of table salt of the enterprise of the noble salt company.
the role of the state in the economy is also declining.
that is, it was a useful project.
The commission includes scientists, representatives of state bodies, consultants.
Recall that the United Nations has published the next human development report.
He also received a red diploma from the Eurasian National University in financial and credit specialty, "the statement said.
According to experts, such a result made it possible to qualitatively implement the first five-year industrialization program, aimed primarily at the development of the non-resource sector of the economy.
The President constantly calls for the development of a strategy for the elimination of terrorism, "he said.
the accounts payable of state institutions for the year to their suppliers amounted to 45 billion tenge. accounts payable amounted to 45 billion tenge in the end of 2015 .
As of December 1, 2015, Kazakhstan has registered branches and representative offices with the participation of Macedonians, 8 legal entities.
In general, as part of the implementation of the financial recovery program for 2013-2015, in accordance with the decision of the financial recovery commission of the holding, funding of 9 financial institutions in the amount of 275 billion tenge was presented.
first, the interests of various social groups.	the body can bring new trends in the organization of these elections ,  - she said .
The President of Singapore expressed his good wishes to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and expressed hope for further mutually beneficial cooperation between the two states.
Despite the difficult international conditions, it is continuing its activities today.
the issue of finding projects for mutual cooperation on the site of the Eurasian Economic Commission (yeek) is being actively worked out, "he explained.
they retain their languages, freely adhere to culture, traditions, and also unite with Kazakhstani society.
The event was also attended by the akim of Zhambyl region, the chairman of the regional assembly of people of Kazakhstan, the deputy chairman of kha - the head of the secretariat of e. Togzhanov, members of the kha and regional assembly, representatives of ethnocultural associations, the public of the region.
today there are several ways to resolve property disputes - pre-trial, judicial and out-of-court. nowadays there are several ways to resolve property disputes - the pre-trial , judicial and non-judicial forms .
we cooperated constructively with all stakeholders in the elections.
then assistance was provided to the banking sector, peasant farms, small and medium-sized businesses, "the head of state said.
During the meeting, the issues of improving the efficiency of the Nur-Mubarak University, which is a joint project of the Kazakh-Egyptian countries, were discussed, "the statement said.
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public councils. "
dear compatriots!
According to him, government agencies and their sites should be meaningful and informational.
to appoint the Bozumbayev rope of the Aldabergenovich as Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the akim of the Pavlodar region, the decree says.
In turn, the diplomatic mission of Kazakhstan congratulated Almaty on its 1000th anniversary and expressed interest in the development of bilateral cooperation.
firstly, we began the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development, we build the economy independently of raw materials.
Public-private partnerships should be strengthened to facilitate budgetary expenditures.
in northern Kazakhstan, 350 peasant farms are responsible for 350 hectares of land.
this is our achievement.
Kazakhstan has observer status in the African Union.
Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the good conduct of elections. kazakhstan attaches great importance to the forthcoming parliamentary elections .
I study in a rural school, so I raise and worry about offspring and education. we need competent experts , working professionals .
In addition, the state budget received fines and other payments in the amount of 67.8 billion tenge.
The parties discussed the state of trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as the state of partnership in the production, transit, transport and communication spheres, the report said.
In 2016, due to the change of the updated program, the first class will study 5 days a week.
Recall that the usl project is gaining popularity every year and allows students to enter the international arena and defend the honor of their country.
today, with a high sense of patriotism, new people are needed who can work with society and the people. today , we need people who have a high spirit of patriotism and work with the people .
To this end, new parliamentarians need to adopt a number of new laws and promote the maximum development of small and medium-sized businesses.
I am sure that this meeting will give impetus to our initial work in a professional environment and give inspiration to our inspiration, "said the Norwegian military attaché in Kazakhstan Rear Admiral Gunnar Helyo.
I was surprised by the discount on the price.
As part of the project, the Birlyk-ryskulov-kazstroy-akbulak highway is being built in the Talgar district, leading to the Akbulak sanatorium and recreation complex.
As for investment capital, we expect positive results on this indicator. as for investment capital , we expect to improve this indicator .
It is worth noting that the national company in recent years has implemented a number of large investment projects, such as the production of optical devices, radar systems, es-145 helicopters, as well as outsourcing of camases and armored arlan wheeled vehicles.
At the end of the official visit, the president of the Senegalese republic maki sall, the head of the region became bakauov and the chairman of the council of managers erg s.a.r.l planted trees on the alley of metallurgists at the enterprise Alexander mashkevich.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that our country has always been in friendly relations with Iran.
Under these conditions, work has begun to orient the economy to new conditions.
We support the desire of Israel to sign an agreement on a free trade zone with the Eurasian Economic Union.
the session focuses on global climate change, the Paris Climate Agreement and its ratification.
The President of Kazakhstan also called on local executive bodies to actively support small and medium-sized businesses.
In this context, the Kazakh diplomat addressed the interlocutors with a speech by the head of state "Peace. XXI century. "
To increase the efficiency of loans allocated under the agribusiness 2020 and Employment Roadmap 2020 programs, changes were made to the fund's programs to effectively determine them.
According to the Deputy President of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber, in the future Kazakhstan will adopt many reforms, the implementation of which requires a new parliament.
we will continue to work on the formation of a knowledge-based economy.
The fight against drug trafficking is a priority of the country's domestic and foreign policy.
I constantly monitor the progress of construction and preparation, there are no delays in the work schedule.
the diplomat invited the Czech side to take an active part in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," planned in the capital next year, and take part in the international exhibition 2017-2018. to support Kazakhstan's application for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
The state inventory of the removal and removal of hazardous wastes is one of the most important sources of environmental information.
Our side is working to attract investors, "he said.
I believe that in these difficult times, the state needs to accept new people who are able to work fully. i believe that during this difficult time , it is necessary to elect new people , creative , thinking , who are ready to work hard for the good of our country .
among them, "samruk-kazyna," "baiterek" and "kazagro."
During the meeting, the issues of women's active participation in the implementation of the Plan of the Nation of the Head of State, support for women's entrepreneurship, strengthening spiritual, moral and family values, and the development of family and demographic policy were discussed.
According to Alpysbayev, Vice President of Logistics of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, this route involves transferring the transit potential of the countries of the Caspian region to European-Asian routes.
The National Commission on Family and Demographic Policy and Women's Affairs under the President of Kazakhstan is an advocate for the interests of women in the country. the national commission for women affairs , family and demographic policy for the president of kazakhstan is a guide and protector of the interests of the women in our country .
the main points of this program are not just uranium, but methodical and systematic.
The participants of the meeting expressed their attitude to global political and economic development, the prospects of the monetary system, expressed their vision of solving pressing issues on the international agenda.
the new infrastructure will ensure trading of securities, goods and productive securities.
the national bank will continue to pursue a policy of free current exchange rate. the national bank will continue to conduct the policy of free-floating exchange rate .
this law was passed last year.
FAO is now dealing with these issues.
therefore, I sincerely hope that thanks to the cooperation of the Kazavtoprom Union and the structure "development of the Russian auto industry," the vast majority of solutions will be found. "
the mass sports event ended with a concert program.
it will be combined with the Russian and Belarusian systems.
The Minister also drew attention to the fact that the creation of the Ministry of Public Service Affairs places responsibility for improving the entire state apparatus of Kazakhstan.
The head of state emphasized that in the new conditions, the general political role and responsibility of the parliament as a whole and its chambers will increase, and expressed confidence that the tradition of constructive interaction will continue in the legislative processes, "the head of state noted.
It was also about economic, investment and cultural events held within the framework of Expo-2017.
We have done a lot of work, and there is still a lot of work ahead, "the head of state said.
over the past five months, 240 domestic enterprises have been involved in the construction of expo 2017.
On the Kazakh side, the committee of state revenues, the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, the management of the seaport, the committee of the situational transport center, the casato, the union of transport workers and others took part in this meeting.
we, the people of Kazakhstan, united a common historical destiny, creating statehood on ancient Kazakh soil, understanding ourselves as a peaceful civil society, transferred to the heirs of freedom, equality and peace, wanting to take a worthy place in the world community, realizing our high responsibility to current and future generations, Based on our sovereign rights, we will adopt this constitution, the constitution says.
As Chairman of the Central Council of the Organization of Veterans of Kazakhstan N.Ozganbayev noted, veterans take an active part in the education of youth.
Within the framework of the two-panel session, speeches are planned by specialists, current and former military personnel, military scientists, experts on various problems.
he noted that growth is observed in all sectors of non-ferrous mellurgy, mechanical engineering, food and beverage production, the production of rubber and plastic products.
the purpose of the conference is to show society the efforts of the head of state to develop public service. the purpose of the conference is to bring to the public the role and significance that the head of state has made to the development of the civil service .
we can say that the message this year was significant, and it has its own reason. in my opinion , this year 's address has been particularly important for several reasons .
priority will be given to Europe. "
This year it is planned to introduce 125 km.
this is not Kazakhstani milk, so we need to amend our national legislation, use words to trademarks, receive drawings misleading consumers about the origin of the goods, "N. Aldabergenov said.
At the same time, the economic opportunities of Almaty region will be qualified.
At the same time, 61.2% of them were attracted in the field of small and medium-sized businesses, which is 254.8 billion tenge, "he said.
Our anti-crisis economic policies are aimed not only at finding and finding new ways of economic growth.
trade turnover between EAO and Kazakhstan decreased by 25% in 9 months of 2015.
Look, we have a very young government - most of them are 40 years old.
we renamed our company "ackerman furniture."
the Chinese market is everything we produce. china 's market will absorb , take everything that we will make .
Public private partnerships are an important area. of course , development of the public and private partnership is an important direction .
therefore, we are very interested in the fact that these cases quickly initiated and began to work, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
photo from the site inform.kz
The purpose of the forum is to celebrate the Day of Science Workers, comprehensively discuss topical issues of science development in the republic, determine the prospects for the further development of Kazakhstan's science, ensure close cooperation between science and business, discuss the possibilities of science, technology and innovation policy in Kazakhstan.
new parliamentary elections will open up new opportunities for reconciliation between civil society and the authorities in Kazakhstan. the election of the new parliament will help to legitimize the existing consensus between civil society and the government of kazakhstan .
The Eurasian Economic Union creates all conditions for increasing trade between Kazakhstan and Belarus. "
large quantities of grain, construction materials, metal, dry cargo, "said A. Aydarbayev.
The signing of the planned documents will ensure the release of export-oriented products and reduce dependence on the volume of the state defense order, as well as give a dynamic impetus to the development of new prospects for the country's military-industrial complex.
in the Mangistau region, the Kazazot plant was modernized.
451 The project for a total amount of KZT 85,316,7 million was approved to subsidize the interest rate, 100 people received loan guarantees in the amount of KZT 4,417,4 million.
It is expected that the project will be implemented in the industrial zone "mindam" in the ordabasa area.
foreigners provide for the construction of greenhouses on 40 hectares, the creation of a livestock farm for 10 thousand heads of cattle and 100 thousand heads of sheep, the Aktobe Inform information center said.
this exhibition, which takes place at the National Museum, is very important. the exhibition , taking place at the national museum , has a very deep meaning .
the exhibition featured carpets, paintings, ceramic and clay ware, home-made national costumes, decorative products and other objects created by oriental craftsmen.
there will be other steps, and I am sure of this without mirror errors.
the best team of ktzh was awarded the title "winner of industry competitions" and was awarded a special diploma.
The Republic has established a system for the protection of children's rights at the central and regional levels.
inviting leaders and politicians of other countries to a nuclear-free world, the president again showed humanity that he is a world-class statesman, "the deputy said.
development of small and medium-sized businesses around large regional projects.
"I believe that I presented you with an award to all Kazakhstanis," N. Nazarbayev said.
contract work was performed by kazconstructiongroup LLP.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee according to the estimates in April 2016 amounted to 136956 tenge.
recently, 1 thousand cattle were delivered from Shymkent International Airport to the city of Fujeira.
We hope that our tank crews will perform at all qualifying stages and will be selected for international competitions, "the servicemen of the unit noted.
In addition, during the negotiations, the Senegalese Republic expressed interest in actively participating in EXPO 2017.
we want you to become an honored guest of this commemorative event, at which residents of all regions of our country will gather, "the metropolitan emphasized.
Also proposals on adoption of the new document for 2016-2018 taking into account the tasks delivered within the idea "M g_l_k will be made Ate".
a number of fundamental norms have been introduced into the new law.
The President of Kazakhstan personally held a telephone conversation with the leaders of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
I was in the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev for the first time. for the first time i had an opportunity to attend the state of the nation address .
early elections. i support the proposal to hold early elections .
Serik sapiev is our champion.
you need to pay for each child, the rest is regulated by the business itself, it is profitable and cheap, and fast, "B. Baybek noted.
This year it is planned to launch 7 new dairy farms worth 7 billion tenge and reconstruct 17 farms.
our entrepreneurs are interested in infrastructure, modernization, dog technologies, agriculture, industry, engineering.
According to the chamber, parliamentarians were received by Gulnar Iksanova, headed by a group of deputies of the meeting of the committee on social and cultural development.
According to dsadm, the high rate of industrial injuries persists in Karaganda, East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar and Almaty regions.
we have not yet received quality medical care between the village and the city. we still have an unequal access to the quality medical services between rural and urban areas .
N.Nazarbayev gave an example of payment of leading knowledge in the countries of the world.
I think that it can rely on key issues that are considered when obtaining a loan - these are entrepreneurs who work more than 250 people and have an income of 3 million tenge, "the entrepreneur said.
Almaty region is preparing for meetings and elections to maslikhats at all levels. almaty region has started the preparatory work for the election of deputies of the mazhilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels .
now personnel are being selected for 130 places allocated to the magistracy, "said A. Koval.
I think it will be the right decision.
an option was also approved according to which the board of directors of KTz and AK was adjusted regarding the tenge instability of development until 2016-2020.
The Kazakh bookshelves, organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Egypt, presented books in Kazakh, Arabic, English and Russian about the history of the country, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the chronology of the creation and development of our capital and the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017."
today we invited the winners of this competition.
we know that there are unrest in every world, and our country has such an institution as a calm reason.
I initiated the creation of the Turkic council.
in less than two years, the price fell by half.
how long it takes to get a particular certificate, now in one working day you can collect all the necessary documents, "said the deputy director of the white branch of Kazakhtelecom in West Kazakhstan region.
The discussion was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of business of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance, ktz, ukp and the Nұr Otan party.
the first section is "25 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan," which tells about the history of the formation of independent Kazakhstan and the development of Kazakh statehood over the years of independence.
Thanks to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, we have a Chinese partner. thanks to the national chamber of entrepreneurs we have chinese partners .
due to the good quality of the antifreeze of Mr. Arti, which produces eltrans, car owners enjoy.
As an example, E. batyrbekov called the closed Semipalatinsk paligon, the rejection of the nuclear capability of the fourth place in Kazakhstan, including the last "atomic" project.
in particular, we call on the 8 annex 2 countries for the entry into force of nurseries that need to be ratified to sign and ratify the treaty no later than in the future, without waiting for the accession of other countries.
During the round table, special attention was paid to the protection of the rights of refugees and their integration into society in order to achieve an effective economic effect for developed States, as well as to strengthen cooperation in the field of combating human trafficking.
In Nicaragua, such large projects as the construction of inter-ocean canals and energy facilities are being implemented.
A new system for assessing the work of civil servants will also be introduced, "the scientist said 100kadam.kz. in an interview with the portal.
According to him, in addition to the successful implementation of social programs, our republic is leading in creating new opportunities.
secondly, young, energetic people should come to the current popular desires, give a new stream of forces.
photo from the site twitter.com
of them, the own crystal amounted to 45.1 billion tenge, which is 19.5% higher than last year.
despite the difficult economic situation, as well as the decline in economic performance in many sectors - construction increases the volume of stable trade and housing use. despite the difficult economic situation and the dropping of many indicators in many sectors of the economy , the construction sphere steadily moves forward and increases the volume of the commissioned housing .
a system is legislated in which civil servants will go to permanent training, increase their preliminary training and degree, "he said.
therefore, the general civilian identification in Kazakhstan is based on ethnic preservation and development. therefore , in kazakhstan the public identification rests on the ethnicity , its preservation and development .
ratification of the document will allow bringing long-term credit resources to Kazakhstan for the implementation of infrastructure projects.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
The "path of Kazakhstan to Europe" was very well received by the European Union, great success was achieved in international relations.
For example, our institute works in a number of areas of the agricultural and industrial complex, "said A. Sadanov.
Now we want to consider the direction of deep uranium processing and implement one interesting project. we are thinking about the uranium processing , we would like to implement very interesting project .
Kazakhstan was a new donor and was gaining sufficient knowledge and experience because it was a middle-income country.
now Dubai has become a global city, and so is the capital.
Attracting foreign direct investment is an important component of the programme.
The world now faces the challenge of overcoming the crisis. today , all the nations have only one task - to overcome the crisis .
such a mechanism will bring the "shadow economy" to light.
This suggests that the government, the Ministry of Health and Social Development welcome the participation of the private sector in this area as a whole, "said E. Birtanov.
Financing was carried out on behalf of the Head of State in 2015 from the funds of the National Fund.
they have all the conditions for obtaining quality education, "said Akmola region Governor Sergei Kulagin.
current employees of these enterprises, students of vocational education institutions, as well as universities. they are employees of enterprises , educational institutions , students of technical and vocational education and universities .
But I think these problems are temporary, based on the long-term strategy of our country this year has been very successful.
more than 15 people entered our society.
According to the military, the first phase of the preparatory stage was successful.
The nomination of state bodies that contributed to the development of the Kazakhstan segment of the Internet was awarded to the Central Communications Service under the President of Kazakhstan.
we plan to sell not only lamb, but also skin.
It is planned that the project will be implemented before the end of 2016 and after the completion of construction 255 new jobs will be created, "the report said.
Preparations for the elections are carried out in full. preparations for the elections are held at full capacity .
According to him, the delegation from Bulgaria held meetings with the Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers of Economy and Energy.
During the ceremony, the head of state congratulated all those present on the upcoming New Year and the lighting of the country's main Christmas tree.
nevertheless, in summing up the series of summits, the international community must recognize that the nuclear threat is not diminishing, but rather increasing.	as the summits conclude , however , the international community should recognize that nuclear risks are growing , not receding .	1,02
we offer a platform to meet the needs of a simple employer and job seeker, "said the director of the employment center of Astana.
Among them are the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Investment and Development, the Ministry of Defense and Public Service, the highest court, the Prosecutor General's Office, the National Center for Human Rights and others, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
The leadership of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan held a tripartite meeting with representatives of the leadership of the Ural plant Zenit, the company mbda and the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
Of course, I cannot control the work of the company through social networks and local media is inaccessible to me.
During the meeting, issues of fiscal policy and privatization were also discussed.
In many ways, the issue of joining the Hague conference on private international law was determined, "said B. Imashev.
To increase the manageability of enterprises and automate production processes, the information systems "situation center" and "numerical mine" will be commissioned.
To date, 7 industrial zones with an area of ​ ​ 560 hectares have been commissioned in the region. today , there are seven industrial zones on 560 hectares .
All of them are aimed at becoming the most important players in world politics and the economy.
The national plan provides for the development of a number of promising sectors of the economy.
for us, this is one of the important points in our lives.
The regional election headquarters includes activists of the region, members of the political council of the regional branch of the party, chairmen of public associations, representatives of non-state organizations and the regional community.
Calling the most important efforts of the International Atomic Energy Agency (aeha) in establishing a violent aeha bank in Kazakhstan;
firstly, this decision was influenced by internal factors, a slowdown in the world economy, and secondly, a large-scale modernization of the country, which requires efforts to implement the national plan.
In this regard, we suggested that the Ministry of National Economy introduce a meeting on economics and economics as an activity.
if part of the debt is provided in tenge, then the other part will be carried out by concluding an agreement with the national bank and issuing securities in Kazakhstan currency, "said the head of the EBRD.
In order to promote trade between states, the parties agreed to improve relations between companies for the export of livestock products (leather, leather raw materials and wool), as well as cooperation in the field of veterinary medicine.
The statement of the head of state N. Nazarbayev was highly appreciated by the chairman of the public organization "Congress of the Iranian People" Erage of battles (Russia).
At the end of the year, production amounted to 5.2%. following the results of the year , the growth of industrial production reached 5.2 % .
- entrepreneur of Kyzylorda aziz kozhambetov;
In the same time in the new specialized downtown the meeting with the head of the headquarters of the train "The M G_l_k Ate" amirzhany the alpeisovy, official representative of committee on communication, informatization and information of RK alibeky esenkulovy and also representatives of a kh and "public consent" took place.
today, when we see what crisis dependence on raw materials will lead to, it is necessary to give preference to new knowledge, the development of technologies and innovations, "he explained.
this is the largest exhibition in central Asia, "said the commissioner of the pavilion.
In the first quarter of this year, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan experienced a positive dynamic growth in freight transportation by rail.
all parties have equal access to information. all parties were given the equal access to the information .
this is our beauty and special pride.
in the import structure - plastic and medicinal products.
At the same time, in accordance with the requirements of crirsco, according to the results of exploration, we created an association of public reporting, "he said.
According to Korean experts, the capital has great potential for the development of health care, medical organizations are equipped at a high level, it is only necessary to improve personnel policy and management.
K.Massimov expressed confidence that the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union signed last December will contribute to strengthening bilateral cooperation between our countries.
According to him, Uzbek entrepreneurs believe that creating a business in Kazakhstan is more profitable than in their homeland.
the message gave a great impetus to our work.
at the same time, the owners of the meetings paid special attention to the state of nuclear disarmament, the role of Kazakhstan and our leader in this issue.
the third direction is methodological support.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on Independence Day. i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the independence day .
today our country is engaged in complex global political and economic processes.
Nursultan Nazarbayev took part in planting trees, talked with immigrants to the subbotnik and representatives of youth of the city.
The head of the Department of Economics of Istanbul University, Dr. Hussein (Turkey), shared his opinion on this topic.
berdybek saparbayev expressed confidence in the presence of a large reserve for the development of cultural and business ties with Germany, especially in industry, agriculture, medicine, transport and logistics.
this year, weekends and holidays will last from March 19 to 23.
precinct election commissions are provided with all necessary documents and equipment.
7 billion 985 million 300 thousand tenge will be required for elections to majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels from the state budget. the total budget for the holding of elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels has amounted to 8 billion tenge .
Also, the White Way party will take part in early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels, "he said.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening trade and economic relations between Mangistau and Italian businessmen, as well as the possibility of participation of Italian companies in investment projects in the region were discussed.
The creation of akhko will allow Kazakhstan to become a priority and will help the development of the country's economy and reduce its dependence on natural resources. creation of the astana international financial center would have several advantages for kazakhstan and will help to develop country 's economy and reduce its dependence on natural resources , increase the capacity of the local personnel and establish necessary infrastructure .
Currently, continental isolation and new transport and transit projects in the region allow for implementation within the framework of the silk road, "he said.
the first experience was negative, and there is some disappointment in health insurance.
Of course, it's easy.
According to N. Shayakhmetov, the most important question that is put before us today is the revival of the new Kazakhstani patriotism.
today we have access to the Internet in 1.5 thousand local points. today , the president gives priority to broadband internet access to more than 1.5 thousand settlements , we are talking about the village .
It is worth noting that growth in Almaty, Kyzylorda and Astana has reached a high level.
Eurasian project is intended for geological study of deep-sea Caspian basin horizons.
the system of motivation of teachers will be thought out, as well as the form and content of the national unified testing will be improved, "said M. Mukatov.
Together with a general overview of the world situation, the panellists discussed thematic issues of peace and security, such as peacemaking, peace consolidation, gender issues in armed conflict and peace situations, as well as sustainable security development and linkages with environmental protection.
A. Dowitoglu noted that he always appreciates a trip to Kazakhstan as his homeland.
According to him, this is the most high-tech enterprise in the country.
Currently, the commission is creating new mechanisms to remove barriers, prohibitions and restrictions in mutual trade, "said Karina Minasyan, member of the board on the internal market, informatization and information and communication technologies.
new reforms are planned in Kazakhstan, work is underway to further develop the economy.	kazakhstan has put forward new reforms to implement immediately for further growth and development of the economy .	1,03
Semipalatinsk Engineering Plant "intends to export conversion equipment to Myanmar.
a lot of work has been done, the entire system of state sales of Kazakhstan in electronic format.
Kazakhstan took 41st place in the ranking of the World Bank and the International Finance Corporation doing business-2016.
this is done to prevent direct links between investors and public authorities, as well as to reduce bureaucratic and administrative barriers.
We are confident that the new course will be agreed and signed, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
I urge citizens to contact the state revenue authorities and re-receive paid funds, "the minister said.
the key state in the implementation of anti-crisis measures of the state. the key actor in the implementation of the anti-crisis measures is the state .
work with investors provides not only for attracting new investments, but also for continuing support of existing investors from government agencies. the work with the investors doesn 't mean the attractiveness of the new investments only , but also the comprehensive support of the existing investors by the government agencies at all stages .
The implementation of the plan will be aimed at creating Kazakhstan in the 21st century with the most balanced political system, developed institutions of civil society and a knowledge-based economy, the head of state said.
According to the deputy head of the regional department of culture a. Temirkhana, in 8 professional theaters of the region, 1940 performances were held, which reached 238 thousand spectators.
Many questions arose within the framework of the new legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public procurement.
then a decision will be made whether he will remain in permanent work on the spot, "said the judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries.
The initiative to hold local and parliamentary elections in Kazakhstan may cover the authorities with new people. the simultaneous holding of local and parliamentary elections will provide an opportunity to upgrade the power with new people and ideas .
thirdly, we are implementing the national plan "100 concrete steps for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms."
and the number of voters is sent by local executive bodies, akimats. initially , there was only one printing house ; ballots were sent through kazakhstan .
on the part of deputies should constantly give new proposals to the executive branch.
scientific potential, scientific and technological resources largely determine the place of each country in the world community, and make it possible to effectively solve its socio-political economic issues. "
In general, all participants have an understanding, the government is also studying the situation, and they have reason to believe that specific requirements are needed in accordance with business projects. in general , as it is known among all participants and the government that for the ppp projects that meet certain criteria , we will provide a separate tariff policy with the inclusion of investment costs .
marat kusainov noted that today the project is a real alternative to the implementation of socially significant projects by creating mutually beneficial, long-term cooperation between the government and regions and business.
This year, this university was supplemented by 622 students, of which 444 in the undergraduate program and 178 students in the master's program.
Colonel Baigaziev, Lieutenant Colonel Vitaly Genne, Major of the Amirkozha Aigoshin, Captain of the 2nd Rank Alibek Akhets, Major of the Daniyar Pockets, Captain Temirlan Musapirs received the medal "For Military Courage" from the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the expense of KazAgRO, it is planned to purchase equipment and equipment for 50.6 million tenge, "the report said.
According to the observer, he twice took part in elections in Kazakhstan, held preparatory events.
the agreement marked the beginning of a strategic partnership. i believe that this contract has laid the beginning of a strategic partnership between two countries .
this is a program of the correct direction of human resources and natural resources in the regions.
the collection was published in a circulation of more than 1000 copies, "he said.
seminar-training is devoted to scientific and expert issues of state policy in the field of research and practical results for state policy for the purpose of public harmony and national unity, the modern state of research, strengthening of Kazakhstan identity and unity.
I think our independence was reflected in the fate of every resident of our country. i think that our independence is reflected in the fate of everyone in the country .
that is, garbage is previously taken, garbage is distributed among poisonous or harmful ones. previously , garbage is sorted to the poisonous , harmful substances causing harm to the environment when burning .
from China through Kazakhstan through the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey.
residential complexes in the future will be provided as part of the Affordable Housing program in the form of apartments in 1, 2, 3 rooms.
Of course, it will be a great contribution to the development of the country's economy, "- added A. Zhanseitov.
In addition, according to the results of 11 months of 2015, 5434 people were employed through the employment center of Astana, 589 graduates were sent to youth practice and 628 people were retrained in order to master a new specialty.
In addition, the athlete won three junior medals in individual types of exercises: two silver and one gold.
the guarantee of security and sustainable development is not a nuclear arsenal, but an expanded mutually beneficial cooperation, solving the problems of all inter-state relations through peaceful negotiations.
we are currently negotiating with our entrepreneurs and hope that such large companies as shell will take part in the exhibition.
reserves for the development of the economy were also preliminary considered.
Due to the commissioning of new schools and taking into account two-shift education, there is no shortage of educational institutions in the 2015-2016 academic year, but the density in 10 schools remains.
Nұrly sting. "
The 2015 message is a adopted document that clearly defined the outline of the anti-crisis program, "said Julia Yakusheva.
The meeting participants discussed a wide range of issues aimed at developing integration cooperation in the areas of trade, economic, energy, health and education.
I want to celebrate the beautiful buildings and developed infrastructure of the capital.
March 17, on Care Day, young people congratulate veterans of the rear, labor and war on the holiday.
removing administrative barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises, improving public administration, education and health care.
The fisu Winter Universiade is a high-level event. fisu winter universiade is always exciting and interesting high-level event .
The head of the region presented prizes to the winners. the governor presented the awards to the winners .
symbolically, the first buyer of the ticket for our company was a metropolitan resident. it is very symbolic for our company that the first purchaser of the ticket has become a resident of the capital .
the Mangistau regional youth center joined the opening of a new club called the Volunteer.
Deputy Director for Kazakhstan, Doctor of Economics, Oxford University Agris Premanis gave a lecture on "regional economic prospects" for undergraduates and doctoral students of the Academy.
The Finnish diplomat has long been the head of the working group on Kazakhstan's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and was awarded a high state award for his outstanding contribution to advancing the process of our country's accession to the international organization.
the first - the "great culture-bright future" - determines the basis for the development of the country by educating the younger generation in the spirit of traditional values.
In just two months of this year, the average republican figure was 4.1%, while our growth was 10.6%, "he said.
In addition, most of Kazakhstan's exports are wheat, flour, legumes and lubricants, lumber, metals and pasta.
He emphasized the prospects for cooperation between the two countries in the business and cultural and humanitarian spheres, the report said.
The company inalca eurasia intends to form a Kazakhstani meat brand and provide the Russian Federation and European countries with meat exports.
According to the head of the region, last year 5 enterprises were opened in the Mamlyut district.
The event was held in the capital of Thailand from February 17 to 21.
it should be qualitatively updated, "the veteran added.
in this case, the leadership of the state needs to ensure sustainable and safe economic development for citizens.
The National Bank plans to present the conceptual direction of the securities market development in the near future. the national bank plans to offer a series of conceptual directions for the development of the securities market .
in total, 1731 objects of property worth 3,454.9 million tenge were legalized in the region, of which 462 were residential objects, 1269 were non-residential objects.
participants will also discuss philosophical bases of the national patriotic idea "The m g_l_k ate", questions of reference points of dignity of the Kazakhstan youth, historical features of ethnic processes in Kazakhstan, questions of ethics and image of public servants.
having previously headed the Development Fund, Ibragimova was transferred to the post of deputy chairman of the board of Baiterek Holding.
To implement our plan, we studied complex issues of activity and considered ways to solve them. for the implementation of the plan , we have studied the complex problems of the sec and outlined ways to solve them .
Customers and recipients will be able to collaborate as part of today's forum. i am convinced that in the framework of today 's forum the suppliers and customers will be able to establish joint work .
this act was prepared within two years.
our cooperation and openness are essential for building a permanent dialogue.
The head of state stressed that the concepts of Islam and progress should be accompanied.
as part of my international visits and meetings, I consulted many times with my colleagues - heads of State and Government of other countries.
In general, the exhibition "Kadex-2016" has been held for the fourth year.
the issue of housing is one of the main issues for any person, he said. Jaksybekov.
According to E. Khairov, in Kazakhstan the volume of output of oil investment products increased by 80%, investments in engineering increased by 7 times.
modern schools, kindergartens, hospitals, sports facilities, playgrounds are being built, charitable foundations and other organizations operate.
this suggests that the number of women entrepreneurs is growing every year, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
According to the Minister of Trade of Veronica Nikishin, if the reduction in rates increases duties on the production of confectionery from the EAEU countries.
According to him, we can reach the new lines of economic integration only by expanding the integration partnership.
About 25 teachers and sergeants of the cadet corps at the seminar worked out the methodology for preparing for classes, working in a group, developing concept plans, organizing independent work and evaluating students.
in the party's election program, the path is clearly defined, all difficulties are left behind and measures are developed aimed at a new stage. the pre-election program of " nur otan " party clearly defined a path for the forward movement , developed measures that will allow kazakhstanis to overcome all difficulties and reach a new level of development .
Therefore, in order to intensively implement the targeted reform, the executive branch depends on certain levels, "the expert noted.
Karaganda State University, Medical University, State Technical University, Law Institute.
this year was held in the spirit of modernizing historical memory, strengthening the national unity of statehood.
these are 5 projects in the field of health care, 8 projects in the field of education, 3 housing construction projects and 2 projects in the field of housing and communal services.
this is 120 million tenge, "the akim said.
chief engineer of "ktzh" uk "ark tolebayev and executive director of" ktzehress "sergey anashkin spoke at the seminar.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan took part in the summit of the JSC in Ethiopia.
indeed, we have learned to buy things in different stores in our currency, and if this is a country (housing, transport), then we use dollars.
Arcelor, polymetal and other companies are already operating in Kazakhstan. such companies as arcelor , polymetal and others already operate in kazakhstan .
in Helsenka R. Zhoshybayev met with the head of the Ministry of Economy and Employment, Finnish officials at the Expo and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Business Environment of Finland.
For example, a workshop for the production of kumys will be opened in the Sarzhal rural district.
In general, Kazakhstan has given priority to the protection of human rights. protecting human rights is one of the most important priorities of kazakhstan .
Following the meeting, an agreement was signed on Turkmenistan's participation in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
but for some post-Soviet leaders, what is happening now became known to the President of Kazakhstan in the 1990s.
The meeting participants will also discuss issues related to the development of investment cooperation between the two countries, possible difficulties in economic cooperation and ways to solve them.
The construction of roads with a length of 23.8 km was completed.
66 objects were built or seismic amplified, 745 organs were transplanted, "said B. Sultanov.
for example, environmental, family and children's topics.
the most important achievement, the volume index in industrial development amounted to 24.2%, we surpassed Belarus and the Russian Federation. the most important is the index of physical volume of industrial development reached 24.2 % , we showed results better than belarus and russia .
I congratulate all graduates on completing their studies and entering the labor path.
Nrla zhol "is very effective measure in fight against crisis.
in his report, the head of the region a. Batalov elaborated on the areas of industry, agriculture, entrepreneurship, education, health, culture, as well as the social sphere of the region.
he understands everything and knows everything.
among them is the light-tonnage kazinruss-trading oil refinery.
Work on trilingualism development began for the first time in East Kazakhstan region.
only cases of eviction, entry, destruction, seizure of land, a fine of 1000 rubles to the state side are issued in state judicial officers, "he said.
The Serbian Prime Minister praised relations between Kazakhstan and Serbia.
India officially supports us on this issue, "he said.
During the working trip, the head of "ktc" uk "ak" raja rail transportation co, the general director of the company, Hassan Musavinejad patentes talgo s. The president of company A at a meeting with the carlos palacio oriol, spoke about the supply of 200 Kazakh passenger cars "tupar-talgo" under the Iranian program for the development of passenger transport.
Today, political parties must have a mandate of confidence of the people of deputies, "said S. Yergaliev.
in this regard, in his opinion, it is very important to participate in the forum of world parliamentarians.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that in order to achieve the goals on the election platform, each member of the party has a great responsibility.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Raul castro paid special attention to the issues of interaction in the field of health, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology.
r.azevedo handed Nursultan Nazarbayev as a memorable souvenir a pen signed by the protocol on Kazakhstan's accession.
Nevada - the Semipalatinsk movement did not immediately become the answer to this question.
these sites will be delivered by our individual entrepreneurs, "said Danial Akhmetov, entrusting the heads of the Lobster and Physical Culture and Sports Department of the region.
The country's experience and achievements will be presented in the Finnish pavilion at Expo 2017.
On November 2, 2015, Parliament adopted a bill "On amending and supplementing a number of legislative acts related to the development of local self-government of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
of these, 50.1% are girls and 49.9% are children.
As part of the affordable housing program, more than 3.5 thousand apartments were provided to young families.
this decision was approved by the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated 12.02.2014  No. 81.
The event was attended by the President of the Republic of Armenia, the President of the Republic of Belarus a.lukashenko, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic a.aatambayev., The President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, the President of the Republic of Tajikistan e.rakhmon and the Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission v.christenko.
the role of representative bodies is growing in Kazakhstan.
the presidium of the council and the draft regulation on the public council of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were also approved.
today the national bank made us a quota.
- How do you assess the development potential of Kazakh-Uzbek cooperation?
At an expanded meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Economic Policy Council of the Nұr Otan faction, Finance Minister Bakhyt Sultanov spoke about the success of the action on legalization of property in Kazakhstan during the implementation of the law on amnesty of citizens related to the privatization of property.
you got rich, became a millionaire, a billionaire.
According to him, in order to show the unity of Kazakhstan, new ideological people should come to the legislative bodies.
we are not among the international observers, but on the day of voting we are at the polling stations of the Central Election Commission.
Of course, we want to get acquainted with the experience of the Chinese.
delegations from West Kazakhstan, Mangistau, Kyzylorda regions, as well as from the Orenburg region of the Russian Federation arrived at the forum.
In his opinion, the party's election program outlines the concept of reforming the Kazakh state.
Design gold reserves in Kazakhstan are estimated at 9.5 thousand tons, as well as 7, 7 thousand tons of gold deposits, "said B. Nurabayev.
we agreed there on the future of cooperation in the electoral sphere.
the complex is equipped with an automated shooting control system, digital, navigation and topographic communication facilities, including satellite ones.
political parties have nominated business, educated, knowledgeable people who pay attention to the country's interest.
In turn, S.Karchevsky noted that Kazakhstan is an important partner for the Polish people in the Central Asian zone, and his side is interested in all areas of bilateral cooperation in the future.
In his speech, the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN, Gerard Abdrakhmanov, shared the audience about the main priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy on the global agenda, the main of which was the initiative of the head of state to strengthen security, prevent violent extremism and terrorism, and promote sustainable development.
Note that the carmeuse group of companies is the leader in the production of high-quality lime products in the world.
in addition, adb invited Kazakhstan to consider new areas of cooperation in the railway industry.
Secondly, agricultural production in Kazakhstan, as in the whole world, is the largest industry of the national economic complex, "said the chairman of the Aul party, a member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ali Beketayev.
protection of the waters and continental shelf of the state territory adjacent to the state border of Kazakhstan, as well as soldiers, of its predecessors; to ensure the illegal navigation of ships, smuggling operations, robbery and illegal fishing, detention and inspection of offending vessels.
expansion of this approach, relationship with each other, study of certain programs.
a number of eidu member countries are founders and members of the hub, so interaction with the countries of the organization was created. a number of oecd members countries are the founders and members of the hub , so cooperation with them has already been established .
traditionally we meet at the basic university, I congratulate you on the holiday and wish you professional success. by tradition , we meet at the base university , i want to congratulate you on this holiday and wish you every success .
an innovative business model in the process of transformation. we are moving from a passive investor to a strategic investor model .
for example, a lunar flight of aymbetov to a space station. here , the astronauts training centre helped mr. aimbetov to prepare for the flight .
The head of state noted that one of the main areas of work within the framework of the Anti-Crisis Action Plan for 2016-2018 is ensuring financial stability.
According to the artist, he met the new year in an act with his parents.
I think that at least 100-150 companies should participate in the exhibition. i think that the exhibition will involve at least 100-150 companies .
A new section for the production of roads has been built around Pavlodar, "the akim said.
the expert noted the growth of tenge liquidity.
Last week, the first meeting of the Atameken working group on the development of the healthcare sector was held.
To date, about 100 children attend Kulynchak kindergarten.
Murat abugaliula Nurtileuov was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Finnish Republic.
in the nominations of models, collages, paper products of a student of the school-lyceum No. 27 camilla kamalova and brick wood.
The memorandum was signed with the participation of Minister of Innovation and Development Asset Issekeshev.
The 77 steps speak of the need to create growth points in 10 universities and 10 colleges. the 77st step says that it 's necessary to create 10 universities and 10 colleges as growth points .
Kazakhstan military equipment will be represented by the Kazakhstan Engineering group of companies.
Kazakhstan received a document on what way to go. kazakhstan has received the document that determines on which way we should go .
In conducting the comprehensive review, we widely considered the development, development of the country, not only economic growth, but also the well-being, quality and living conditions of people. when conducting a comprehensive review , we consider the development in the broadest sense , for us country 's development is not only the economic growth , but also the human well-being , quality of life and conditions .
at the meeting, a bill was discussed on the ratification of a free trade agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and its member states and the socialist republic of Vietnam.
and English is understandable, if not speaking.
elections - the choice of the future. elections are that we choose in the future .
we have three signs - this is a language that is not prescribed in the constitution, observance of national traditions, historical memory.
we must double exports of manufactured goods, "B.Sagintayev said.
we are growing educated, mobile youth. we are bringing up a new generation of literate , creative young people .
to appoint bakauov bolat zhumabekulas as an akim of the Pavlodar region, the decree says.
this is a formula for the happiness of the women's movement, this is the honor of the whole country, "said D. Nazarbayev.
p. zhoshybayev.
photo site nurotan.kz
such a small criminal case affects the interests of the population as a whole, unfortunately, we could not overcome the work of preventing theft, so the population should be satisfied with the work of the police in this direction, "the minister added.
The interlocutors exchanged views on issues of legislative support for reforms in Kazakhstan and Russia, overcoming crisis trends in the economy, as well as expanding cross-border cooperation.
in a program speech at the XVII Congress of the Nur Otan Party, the head of state N. Nazarbayev.
I believe that Kazakhstanis should not forget about their roots and roots.
we are interested in how the elections will be held in Kazakhstan, because this is an economic situation in Polish-Kazakh relations, "Rafal Gregors Baniak added.
I am very happy to be with us in Kazakhstan with a similar culture and history. kazakhstan is a country that has lots in common in culture and history .
it included dozens of areas of work.
on the Kazakh side, the commission was headed by the Vice Minister of Finance Ruslan Beketayev, on the Swiss side, the head of the department of bilateral economic relations of the seco Libyan Economy Secretariat.
This year, the dynamics of the army international games will be even larger.
Together we are creating a prosperous, developed country, "the head of state said.
Along with the concert, the guests were presented with the photo exhibition "St. Petersburg through the eyes of angels: a look with isaac."
The law was developed according to 54 of the 100 steps of the head of state to implement 5 institutional reforms.
During the event, the honorary consul of Kazakhstan in the state of North Dakota presented the howard "20 years of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan" for his contribution to the development of agribusiness between the two countries.
Kazakhstan helps all humanity.
That is why Kazakhstan has achieved great success.
the significance of the association lies in the fact that we respond not only on behalf of our company, but also for small farms.
The meeting addressed issues of strengthening peace, stability and security.
thirdly, peace negotiations and constructive negotiations adapted to the principles of equal responsibility for peace and security, mutual respect and non-interference in internal affairs should be the basis for the settlement of all disputes between States.
Kazagromarketing will also be transferred by the white and Kazagronym to a white competitive environment, which will reduce state participation in information and consulting activities and the market for livestock products.
In the West Kazakhstan region, preparations for meetings and elections of maslikhats of all levels are proceeding according to the plan of the central election commission. preparations for the snap elections in the majilis and maslikhats of all levels in west kazakhstan region are held according to the schedule of the central election commission of kazakhstan .
On March 1, the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission of February 12, 2016 No. 1 entered into force. on march 1 the council of the eurasian economic commission launched the department on the functioning of the internal market in the structure of the eurasian economic commission , " - the statement reads .
In the face of global economic instability, new joint projects and their support and stimulus need to be established. we need to create new projects in terms of growth , a system of support and stimulation in the context of global economic instability .
In general, this year the economy of the region dynamically developed in all indicators.
earned income should be effective, create additional value and remain in our country. money should be profitable , create added value and remain in our country .
The rector presented to the guests the main directions of the academy and spoke about the international projects being implemented.
in other cities of the country.
without effective leadership of terrorism, without ideological basis. without their effective leadership , the ideological foundations of terrorism will never be uprooted .
After identifying thematic and thematic moderation, it will definitely be published on our website, "said a.sherniyazova.
From the point of view of Morocco, given the development of full and multifaceted relations with Kazakhstan, a political decision was voiced in the future to open the kingdom's embassy in the capital.
that is, investors are ready to bring their technologies and work with your farmers in the processing of these land resources. investors are willing to bring new technologies and work together with farmers , cultivate the land resources .
this system is clear and fair, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The mission may also include delegations of the Ecu Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and other parliamentary organizations.
the parties discussed topical issues of Kazakh-Polish relations.
what do they need? When asked: "I bring with me the warmth of this country."
The Chairman of the Senate noted that in conditions of economic excitement, Kazakhstan is not limited to a package of anti-crisis measures and infrastructure development, implements the rule of law, industrialization and economic prosperity, strengthening the unity of the nation, as well as large-scale institutional reforms aimed at forming an open and accountable state.
Kazakh delegation headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Akylbek Kamaldinov took part in the event.
The Head of State also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Arbitration Issues," aimed at bringing into line with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Arbitration."
A special project with the domain name dd.bnews.kz in Kazakh and Russian has been developed.
this possibility was supported by a majority of experts.
the company performs services for the reception, cleaning, storage and shipment of grain to railway transport.
on the same day, the chairman of the Senate met with the special representative of the UN Secretary General, the head of the regional center for primitive diplomacy for the countries of Central Asia, petko dragan.
military personnel undergo three stages of the competition - individual race, baton and fire training.
To date, the powers of the council include discussing the draft budget of a territorial or state body, affecting strategic plans for the development of the territory, topics of human rights and freedoms and a number of other important issues, "said the deputy of the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The conference was attended by the President of the UN General Assembly, the Magna Lucketoft, the administrator of the vapor development program, Clark, developed countries, developing countries, senior representatives on issues of landlocked and developing states, as well as thousands of government delegates, international and regional organizations, civil society and the garden.
magnetic compass works in the direction of construction of special reinforced concrete products, metal structures and bridges.
I think that this will give more than 10 thousand new jobs, mainly in single-industry towns and with additional taxes, which will lead to the growth of the country's economy, "the minister added.
the state creates all conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, simplifies the procedures for preparing documents and expands tools and credit initiatives. the state has created all necessary conditions for development of small and medium-sized businesses - licensing procedures are significantly simplified , tools and sources of credit were enhanced , " - the head of the region stressed .
because there is no other alternative for either Kazakhstan or Russia.
my "wrong" technique is an art developed in Japan at the beginning of the 15th century.
In the implementation of the project, the cooperation of the e-government operator with National Information Technologies JSC occupies an important place, "explained the chairman of the board of Kazpost JSC.
at the same time, we want to increase the export of our products and share our experience with the whole world.
According to the index of global prosperity among 142 countries, Kazakhstan took 56th place in 2015, "the head of state said.
In particular, compared to the same period last year, there is an increase in industry, agriculture, investments, "the Governor of Almaty region said.
automated trade and production complex kaztexpo LLP "Peak" utaria Ltd "recently (December 2015) put into operation.
Gross output is 12.1 billion tenge.
In addition, last year, the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan and ESCAP signed a memorandum on the implementation of sustainable development priorities under the Green Bridge program.
According to the chairman of the board of Kazatomprom Uak JSC, "this is the first subsidiary where the system is launched.
dear Kazakhstanis!
thus, it is planned to export products to Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan.
on the part of the Republic of Singapore - Minister of Trade and Industry of this state, the press service said.
protection of the betpakdala population is provided by local western and central branches in the cities of Akba and the capital.
According to N. Altayev, Kazakhstan is actively involved in the processes of international economic integration.
the lack of forecast of our respondents hinders the possibility of long-term business planning, "said K. Eliseev.
in the republic as a whole, this is 3.1 billion tenge.
In addition, this year the volume of spring grain has been increased. at the same time , the area of spring wheat will increase .
electrical and plumbing works.
President of the Kazakh group of companies "Magnetik" Dmitry Grechanichenko, who is a partner of Malaysian companies, expressed readiness to consider financing large infrastructure projects in eastern Kazakhstan.
When implementing road projects, attention is paid to its quality, safety, and support services for road users. this year road projects in the framework of the state program " nurly zhol " will involve 100 thousand people , only 3 thousand are foreign workers , " issekeshev has said .
True, if we see any shortcomings in their implementation, we will definitely be dismissed from office, "concluded Nursultan Nazarbayev.
however, we chose to visit each defendant separately. we have developed an individual approach to each prisoner .
mobile control station, communication network and other structures are also installed.
According to him, the election organizers noted that all measures will be taken to effectively conduct the elections.
they buy grain, meat, honey, vegetable oils, dairy products from us.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands ranks first among the EU countries in terms of investment in our country and is one of the most important trading partners of Kazakhstan.
medical trains "is an unprecedented social project in the history of the country, which made it possible for the population of remote settlements to provide medical care to the highest category.
The Kazakh side intends to launch joint efforts to exchange experience, train personnel, participate in international military competitions and exercises, "said Rear Admiral Gendarbek Zhanzakov.
One of the unique projects is the shapagat house-building plant.
In addition, issues of cooperation within the framework of various international organizations and structures were discussed during the meeting.
it represents competitive products in the field of production, construction and activities.
thirdly, financing of priority anka projects, including the production and processing of meat and milk.
Despite financial difficulties, Kyzylorda is actively building housing. despite the financial difficulties , kyzylorda carries out the active housing construction .
this is a very important event for our country, therefore, as the territory around the capital, we must attach great importance to the improvement of the region, "the akim said.
Of course, now is the time when oil prices are falling and the situation is getting worse.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
it is difficult to say that the whole country has created a workable economy.
Language training will also continue.
In order to implement 61 steps within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, a memorandum was signed on the creation of a meat cluster between Eurasian Agricultural Holding and the Chinese transnational company rifa holding group.
Over 4 months, more than 500 insetors used this service.
Today, projects produce products.
new technology of ammonium nitrate granulation has been introduced.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev said at a meeting of the supreme Eurasian Economic Council on December 21: "We understand that 2016 will be difficult due to the instability of the global economic situation and we will have to work in exceptional conditions.
As the Minister noted, work is underway to unite white and private companies "Kazakhfilm."
The Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan said that on May 31 a parliamentary conference on "Religions against terrorism" will be held in the capital, in which representatives of all world and traditional religions will take part.
The head of state in his message to the people noted the anti-crisis opportunities for the development of the economy without dependence on raw materials. in the address the head of state noted the anti-crisis opportunities for the economic development , independent of the raw materials .
frankly, without the serious government decisions and the new laws and policies we adopted three years ago, our situation would be much different. to be honest , without suspended state decisions , new legislation and strategic programs that we adopted 3 years ago , the situation could be much more dramatic now .
I support this decision.
Karim Massim recalled that in 2017 the international exhibition EXPO-2017 on the theme "energy of the future" will be held in the capital, and invited leading companies of Shu member countries to actively participate in it.
Today, the topic of development of transport and transit potential is one of the expert and political discussions in Central Asia. today , the topic of transport and transit potential is one of the key issues in the expert and political discussions in central asia .
the president called for legalization of funds located offshore.
the principle of an agreement on the provision of energy services - the investor enters into an agreement with the recipient of efficiency (for example, a social facility), within the framework of which he establishes energy-saving equipment in capital. the principle of an energy service contract is that the investor enters into a contract with the beneficiary ( for example , the social object ) , within which he sets the saving equipment at his own expense .
In his speech, the president of the alliance noted that in the article of the head of state, special attention is paid to the section "success of reforms - the desire for national unity."
We pay tribute to the mothers who gave life to each of us. "
The credit activity of the fund is aimed at priority goals, as indicated in the master plan of the Agribusiness 2020 industry program.
According to the Minister, Kazakhstan will gradually raise salaries of civil servants.
-n. What is the role of Nazarbayev in the formation of our country as a member of the world community?
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation between the two countries, including in the inter-parliamentary sphere, were discussed.
they were represented by four teams: the youth alliance of Kazakhstan, the association of students of Kazakhstan in Russia, the mmtu team and the team of the Kazakh diaspora in Tyumen.
Of course, Islam and Orthodoxy are the main religion in Kazakhstan.
with your permission, first of all, I congratulate the brotherly Kazakhstani people on the coming New Year 2016. first of all , if you please , i want to congratulate the brotherly people of kazakhstan on happy new year !
It also talks about the mission and rules of the EU and the effectiveness of the union for the economy.
training seminars were held for members of territorial, district and precinct commissions, "said A. Sakpkereev.
this is very important for every citizen.
- With fluctuations in the level of development of the world economy, many countries refuse to hold major events.
According to him, the role of the head of state in the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan is special.
therefore, it is necessary to observe social adaptation, no matter what level, "said E. Nikitinsk.
In addition, a photo exhibition dedicated to Kazakhstan and Expo 2017 was held.
we, heads of State and politics, have a great responsibility for the future of mankind.
In addition, 150 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget to equip the necessary equipment for connecting 71 schools of the region to the e-learning system (previously, 52 schools were included in this system at the expense of the district and city budgets.
Therefore, in the updated meeting there should be new people with a new approach, "said A. Solovieva.
prospects of cooperation between the Academy and the Ebra on the development of joint educational programs for state bodies of Kazakhstan, employees of the quasi-public sector and business structures.
this is a landmark document. in fact , this document is seminal .
Holding such a large-scale event in the capital is an initiative of the head of state.
because without unity it is impossible to create a powerful economy, a prosperous state.
railway hospital provides multidisciplinary specialized, primary health care, advisory and diagnostic medical care to the population of the local area and railway workers living in state, island, Karmaksh areas, their families, railway pensioners.
According to the head of state, this is the highest figure among the CIS countries.
The 19-year path of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO is a problem of political elections.
Most importantly, we will all be a great force together, and the crisis will not affect us, "he said.
The bartec kazakhstan plant produces a heat control cable that can be used with high humidity, strong chemical effects and grown mechanical loads.
As part of the campaign to elect Kazakhstan to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, the Kazakh delegation held meetings with representatives of Filipinos, Nepalese, Marshal Islands, Kiribati, Samoa and Solomon Islands.
to do this, we connect the Internet.
re-signing the agreement on the creation of a business council will extend the areas of cooperation potential and determine the scope of the president of the council.
In this regard, the president has identified five large-scale tasks that should be implemented in the near future, "the speaker said.
therefore, we got the experience of ecdb and now microcredits amount to 20-30 million tenge, from 3 to 7 days.
The Committee on Agrarian Issues, Environmental Management and Rural Development will begin work on the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Environmental Issues."
We hope that they will give a new impetus to the development of our country, "said N. Alashbaev.
To this end, a national legal framework has been established to implement the provisions of the International Convention on Seafarers' Training, Certification and Watchdog.
registration of states - until March 29 of this year.
this document is landmark in its viability, "said the Russian scientist.
Akishev noted that such initiatives are implemented only thanks to the close work of the National Bank and the government.
I saw a willingness to cooperate in the field of contemporary art. "
meetings with the works of composers-listeners who love choral art: P. Tchaikovsky, Sviridov, P. garlic, p. Turchaninov, Estonian composer arvo pert "Shattan, God's mother devo," as well as Kazakh, Russian, Ukrainian, German, folk songs, popurri, humorous composition.
the country's parliament has done a great job.
Moreover, since last year we have created a joint-stock company and as part of the "kaznex invest" there is a national chamber of entrepreneurs.
planned measures are being taken to receive thermal and electrical networks. heat and electricity networks are being repaired in the municipal properties .
The head of the biotechnical enterprise samat kabdullin informed the head of the region about the construction progress and the timing of the project launch.
firstly, the party is the people.
according to the Minister, Kazakhstan's status as a regional member opens the way to financing infrastructure projects implemented as part of the conclusion of the state programs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol" and "Silk Road Economic Belt" and.
then a transport analysis will be carried out, the possibility of covering other streets will be considered, "said the head of the city department of passenger transport.
the sun, its meadow, eagle and the image of the national golden ornament.
also heads of diplomatic missions of India, Indonesia, Czech Republic, Germany, Finland, Norway and Sweden arrived on a business visit to Aktobe region.
"National Bank of Kazakhstan" and "national bank of Kazakhstan" in English.
everyone satisfied me. i am satisfied with everything , i have noticed no violations .
more than 200 companies from Kazakhstan and Iran took part in the work of the business council.
In this regard, the parties discussed logistics, the possibility of increasing the frequency of flights, as well as the organization of a charter flight to the capital.
Recall that Vietnamese will be the first in southeast Asia to take part in the Expo-17 exhibition.
in the period 2015 under review. Compared to January-March, the number of migrants inside the country decreased by 16.6% to 97660 people.
all our representatives at the regional level will negotiate with each company whenever possible and sign memoranda.
The forum will be another stage in the dialogue of political and religious figures within the framework of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, which was held on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
The construction of mnz is a long process, and in the future its action will grow, and, of course, it is necessary to solve this issue.
It should be noted that Kazakhstan is undergoing the first stage of tactical-special peacekeeping exercises "Steppe Eagle-2016."
Andrei Khazbulatov said that in June of this year, a meeting of gay representatives with St. Petersburg Laklas and the Kokki patricia took place in Washington.
our task is to load domestic manufacturers with orders as much as possible.	our task - to load the maximum orders of domestic producers .	1,04
1,000 new jobs will be created.	this will create up to a thousand new jobs .	1,04
no external factors can influence the social policy of the state.	no external factors can affect the social policies of the state .	1,04
according to the Indonesian diplomat, EXPO-2017 at the international level "is a good opportunity for the development of the Kazakh economy.
Kazakhstan's strategy is aimed at helping the world in the field of stable energy, it is a fantastically rational strategy.
Growth has been slowing for several years.
As the Iranian guest noted, Kazakhstan is always regarded as a fraternal and friendly country with deep historical ties.
the parties also considered the proposal of the Public Service College and the Temasek Foundation to organize, on the basis of the Academy and Singapore, a joint international project on the development of leadership and human resources for public servants of the a corps.
they should be as open and light as possible, "the head of state said.
the country needs broad public consolidation. now the country needs public consolidation .
The main goal of the fund should be to improve the quality of education and health care in poor countries, "the head of state added.
Now the whole world is looking at Iran, so we decided that this is the optimal agreement, "he said.
in all the success of the republic there is a contribution of a unique public institution - this is an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, and the state creates all the conditions for the development and preservation of culture.
if we work on a developed strategy, we have the potential to achieve that goal. "
at the initiative of Kazakhstan and with the support of the UN, international forums in support of peace and counter-terrorism were held in New York and the capital.
The head of the city congratulated the families on this memorable date, noting that the social obligations of the state are the main priority of the work and will be fully implemented.
I think that this is a real way of fulfilling the president's instructions, "said the head of the city.
75 legal and 66 officials were brought to administrative responsibility, 271 officials were disciplined.
The new program of Kazakhstani musicians will include not only orchestra artists, but also honor guard companies, dancers of the central ensemble of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan.
understanding that in this difficult situation, the most important thing for all of us is to live without loss, save resources, save jobs.
In this regard, we will solve gasification issues in Kazakhstan, "he said.
The President of the Senate drew attention to the special nature of the conference, which for the first time will be attended by representatives of international organizations, parliamentary and world religious communities, the diplomatic corps registered in Kazakhstan.
the annual graduate is 780 people, of which 709 are based on a state order.
today we are creating a prosperous state.
During the work, the building of the new educational building, objects of the educational and material base, personnel locations, a dormitory, a military town, a car park and a dining room were examined.
in the future, these funds will be invested to stimulate the most important sectors of the economy.
level of knowledge of a foreign language, average diploma score, work experience.
Your task is to educate and quality training officers and soldiers, "the head of state said.
we prepared the agenda for the summit meeting.
one piece of legislation complemented another.
this is a normal situation during the crisis period.
At a meeting with the director of the mining institute of the Woodrow Wilson International Scientific Center, the meeting discussed topical issues of socio-economic development, modernization and reforms in Kazakhstan.
these are parking lots, bus stations, an outpatient clinic, clinics.
examined the range of products, got acquainted with the potential for the development of factories, "the report said.
In addition, the new law on public service provides for the payment of bonuses and benefits, "the minister said.
the state of the country this year: we have 125 universities, where 474.9 thousand students, 32,500 undergraduates, 2 thousand doctoral students study.	according to the head of the department , in the country there are 125 universities where 474.9 thousand students , 32500 undergraduates , 2 thousand doctoral students are being educated .	1,04
they ensure the stability of the economy, society and the State.	our reforms provide a stable economy , society and the state .	1,04
Despite its youth, Kazakhstan has achieved many successes in foreign policy.
similar fairs are organized in ore, Lisakov and beam cities, "the report said.
abolish all ineffective tax breaks.
here we can talk about the arrival of European fertilizers in the region "as a large-scale project.
Su-25, Su-27 aircraft will be converted from Taldykorgan and Shymkent airfields, which will be presented at the Tadeh-2016 exhibition.
the document is aimed at countering new challenges and threats, "he said.
More than 800 industrial projects have been implemented.
in the interests of business development, national legislation in the field of the economy and labor relations has been transformed. we 've created the most favorable conditions for domestic business , including farmers and farm enterprises .
Within the framework of this program, a number of directions are provided for financing industrial zones in the regions of Kazakhstan. this program provides a number of directions for financing of the industrial zones in various regions of kazakhstan .
in the nomination "the best socially responsible enterprise" among representatives of the Kyzylorda region - large business entities - sautz-oil LLP, as well as among medium and small business entities - "Khudal and k."
As for Christmas, our church is celebrated on January 7th.
in order to collect experience, the Almaty delegation visited the ski resorts of premanon, logs, lion and chamonix.
This measure creates competition for quality assistance to the population, "he said.
Kazakhstan has taken an important step towards democratization.
In addition, the forum provides information on privatized regional companies and enterprises.
to this end, we conduct an audit of these enterprises.
59 of them were held in the regional center, 58 - in Semipalatinsk, the rest - in the districts.
According to him, today work is underway to develop all stages and mechanisms of medical insurance.
in addition, it is planned to launch a new city taxi system.
the world is on the verge of a fourth industrial revolution.
Kazakhstan is a close partner and the most reliable ally for us.
the activities of the cooperative have also been expanded.	we remind the president signed a new law  on agricultural cooperatives " on october 29 , 2015 .
in Baku. Zhoshybayev met with the Minister of Energy of Azerbaijan, Commissioner of the National Section of EXPO-2017 Natig Aliyev and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Halaf Khalafov.
We have been providing such assistance since 2011. such measures are provided by the ' road map - 2020 ' since 2011 .
the change in the tenge exchange rate is closely related to inflation.
I heard their thoughts on how they estimate our growth.
while maintaining the regular number of polyclinics (269 people), the medical center will additionally create 21 workplaces, "said K. Nkrekbayev.
On January 14, 2016, the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev declared March 1 the Day of Gratitude and signed Decree No. 173.
Development of technical and vocational education.
In addition, they set new directions for current youth, such as state programs, regional, sectoral ones.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the implementation of the reforms created on the initiative of the head of state will be strictly controlled.
If the President of Kazakhstan approves this proposal, educated, knowledgeable citizens should come to the parliament meeting, "A.Teuova said.
iii. Our main anti-crisis stratagem
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's chairmanship in the order of the Gaax Code against ballistic missile proliferation testifies to the priority of our country's foreign policy in the field of international security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
According to him, the project will be implemented in the 4th quarter of this year.
Also in the region there are no emergency and three-season training schools.
there is also tourism.
a feasibility study has been drawn up, infrastructure has been used. "
there is such experience all over the world, "said N. Nazarbayev.
During the event, the head of state addressed the deputies in connection with the initiative to hold extraordinary meetings and hold regular elections to maslikhats of all levels.
a new scientific discipline - "logistics" - is being developed by experts from Kazakhstan who have extensive experience in organizing the logistics system, military logistics, its transport component, warehouse management, reserves and resources.
The main topic of the meeting was topical issues of political development of Kazakhstan, as well as issues of land reform and attempts to prepare the second national plan for human rights for 2016-2020.
As you know, one of the effective ways to attract investments in the Kyzylorda region is the Baikonur investment forum, which is held twice a year.
humanity hopes for the twenty-first century as a new era of peace and global cooperation. humanity hoped that the 21st century would herald a new era of global cooperation .
the director of the mission expressed interest in developing cooperation.
the president's annual message clearly defines the directions and reforms of our work. delivering the state of the nation address the president of kazakhstan clearly identified the reform and the priorities of the work .
now we will send finished products directly, "said Dr. Turapbekov.
I propose to include this proposal in the composition and activities of the Turkmen commission, "the chairman of the assembly added.
In the main structure of the national team of the Republic of Kazakhstan in sports from South Kazakhstan region 411 athletes are assigned, in the youth team - 415 athletes, in the youth team - 263 athletes, in total - 1089 athletes.
that is, the "Kazakhstan recipe" is a deliverance from raw materials dependence.
In recent years, the population and organizations of Kazakhstan participating in the issue of switchmen have been increasing, he said.
certification is approved depending on the business quality and quality of the judge's work. the quality of his work is assessed , the theoretical knowledge is checked .
this is important not only for our region, but also for the whole of Kazakhstan.
we pay special attention to the nomination of women in elections from different parties. we pay special attention to the role of women from different political parties .
According to the results of 2 months, the volume of agricultural products amounted to 18.8 billion tenge.
The growing activity of the Eurasian Economic Union opens up new prospects for mutually beneficial cooperation in various areas, "said Vladimir Putin.
The head of the Committee noted that the first stage provides for an increase in the cadastral value.
- General Director of PJSC "Thoroughbred economy of arshaly" of Akmola region talgat zeynullin;
During the work of the assembly, a unique model of unified interethnic and interreligious harmony was formed, a special situation on trust, cooperation and understanding, and friendship of the peoples of Kazakhstan as a whole.
these are factories for feed, ceramic, roasting bricks and the assembly of lamps.
Preparations for EXPO-2017 are improving and construction is being carried out ahead of schedule.
eidu countries and the European Union have a quota for women in decision-making positions.
The head of state in five institutional reforms showed how Kazakhstan will develop by forming a good public service, "N. Shimomura said.
his initiative was the holding of the first congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, "said the director of the Alliance of Steam Civilizations with a mosque.
During the talks, the parties noted the high potential in the development of cooperation between the two countries in the field of agriculture, the implementation of joint investment projects in the bank.
And in the field of social development, our countries are closely cooperating in the field of medicine, "said the head of the region.
The draft recommendation was prepared on the basis of a comprehensive examination of the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union in this economic sector.
the theme of the exhibition, which is called the energy of the future.
On behalf of the rocket and space industry of the Russian Federation, I congratulate you on the New Year 2016!
I believe that participation in this exhibition is very important for the parliamentary assembly, "said K. muttonen.
Now everything should be brought into line with the requirements of the Paris conference, "said K. Elimbetov.
all this is an indicator of changes over 24 years, "he said.
in addition, the organization of international exhibitions will increase the tourism potential of the metropolis.
the parties agreed to exchange experience on the involvement of self-employed citizens in productive employment and coverage of their social security, as well as on the development of the prosthetic and orthopedic industry of Kazakhstan, the report said.
The management of medical technicians gave a speech on troubleshooting their problems.
At the end of the working trip, Abdykalikova took part in the interregional youth forum "My achievement - achieving independence," dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the end of the speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev answered a number of questions from the meeting participants.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also recalled that our country put forward its candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, and expressed confidence that it would be supported.
For 10 months, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises amounted to 190 thousand people, of which 69471 or 36.5% were women.
According to the deputy, all the reforms implemented over the years of independence will improve the state of our country.
The Kazakh leader drew the attention of the world community to the need to immediately consider ways to protect against the threat of international, religious extremism and nuclear weapons. the kazakh leader focuses world 's attention to the necessity to develop new solutions in order to neutralize the risks of destabilizing of the world order , which originate from such contemporary phenomena as international terrorism , religious extremism and the threat of nuclear proliferation .
they will periodically hold briefings, training seminars and instructional fees, explain the functional tasks of observers, "said the chairman of the public commission for the control of regional elections.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also urged all Kazakhstanis to take an active part in the improvement.
Holding of the above-mentioned meetings of the bilateral dialogue on a permanent basis, high level presented by the heads of the foreign ministries of the two countries, as well as nuclear security and nuclear energy, hydrocarbons, renewable energy and energy efficiency; consideration of issues in such areas as the electric power industry.
all educational institutions should ensure the participation of students in planned events, "he said.
Including, in the village of Komsomolsky, it is planned to build a kindergarten for 280 places in the village of 230 and cold.
as an economist and financier, I was interested in the fact that in a message to Kazakhstan he set the task of fulfilling all social tasks, despite the aggravation of the global economic situation. as an economist and financier , in the address to the people of kazakhstan i was impressed by the fact that in spite of the global strength of the economic situation the state is trying to fulfill all social obligations .
The head of the region stressed the importance of the movement in the direction of Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran, thanks to which the country can produce goods to the Persian Gulf.
As of March 28, 2016, Astana-casstart financed 27 projects worth 338.8 million tenge
this is mainly due to a decrease in demand from China, "he said.
It is worth noting that the update of the ZhKZ-2020 program is expected in the first quarter of 2016.
today the situation in the world is unstable, but Kazakhstan continues to attract investment, "he said. zhanurazov.
I will try to take part in all large-scale competitions in order to be sure of winning the World Cup, "the athlete shared his opinion.
the structure is used outdoors at temperature from -40 ° С to + 50 ° С in normal and cold climates.
I believe that one of the main achievements is the employment of people of my period, "the head of state said.
for example, ya. issues of cooperation with the Federal Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Drugs and Crime, the fight against corruption, the revitalization of the Central Asian Regional Information and Coordination Center (Tsaryk. Issues of support for the implementation of Nazarbayev's initiatives voiced at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly.
we are a major global player in the financial sector of Kazakhstan and one of the leading investors in this country.
The maximum number of corporation will be engaged in the production of frozen meat and vegetable semi-products.
The program provides for the adaptation of tourist facilities for Chinese tourists, as well as sending staff of each facility to training courses and issuing a friendly kazakhstan certificate.
In order to eliminate technical barriers to mutual trade with third countries, the ECE Council was mandated to expedite the development of an international treaty.
all tasks will be completed, because we have such a knowledgeable, visionary leader as President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
among them are representatives of international travel agencies, hotels, airlines and government agencies.
in this regard, Spanish companies will work worldwide in the fields of energy, infrastructure, and the environment. the spanish companies are successfully operating around the world in key sectors such as energy , infrastructure and environment .
As a result of the industrialization program, we diversified production, created a meat cluster from feeding. thanks to the program of industrialization , we diversified our enterprise , having created a meet cluster from the cattle feeding to the finished products .
At the end of the meeting, the Secretary of State thanked M. Kamokhara for his active and fruitful activity, contribution to strengthening friendship between Kazakhstan and Japan, wished him well-being and success.
We held a training meeting with local government officials on privatization, legalization and public procurement. we had consultations with employees of local government agencies on privatization , legalization and public procurement .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also spoke about meetings with heads of delegations at the summit.
In the city court, 19,628 cases were completed in 5 months, of which 5,356 in order proceedings, 3,700 in summary proceedings.
The main report was read out by the Secretary-General of the International Exhibition Bureau (icb) vicente lossertales.
According to the minister, the capital paid is $145.9 million, and he pays $29.2 million annually.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of continuing work to ensure financial stability and promote the development of the economy.
we are proud of this award, we thank the head of state for such a high appreciation of our work, "said L. Bolotova.
exchange trade in agricultural products of the agro-industrial complex. "
Following the meeting, B.Sagintayev instructed Almaty Akimat, together with the state bodies responsible for the directions of the "doing business" rating, to solve these issues and prevent them in the future.
We invite you to our country, Mr. Erlan idrissov.
Therefore, we must maintain this runoff and continue to work on the creation of a vertically integrated complex of enterprises in the nuclear industry, "the minister said.
Speaking about bilateral cooperation, it can be noted that every year the Kazakh-Chinese interaction in the military and military-technical spheres has a stable positive dynamics.
I think that in the party, people of culture, literature, and the political sphere will create one "group."
In addition, the city will begin the modernization and modernization of the products of paint and varnish materials of Concern Bakarassov LLP.
The nuclear industry of Kazakhstan today solves issues of developing the economic rehabilitation of the nuclear fuel cycle, studies the complexes of various aspects of the development of domestic atomic energy, solves issues of ensuring nuclear, radiation and environmental safety, supporting the threat of international non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and combating nuclear terrorism, the use of advanced nuclear and radiation technologies in industry and medicine, "B. Zhaksaliev said.
In his speech, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bulat Nusupov presented the audience about the tasks and goals of the message of the President of Kazakhstan of 30.11.2015 year "Way to the Future" of 11.11.2014 year and "From Kazakhstan in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
we also agreed to expand our interaction in the field of culture, education, sports, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia is of a multilateral nature, the fundamental document of which is the agreement on good-neighbourliness and alliance in the 21st century and contributed to the decision to create the Eurasian Economic Union.
opening the event, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Russia noted that this book fully presents the biography of a prominent person in world politics, a visionary strategist, deeply thinking Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in your environment, mothers with many children, business representatives, cultural and sports figures, journalists. among you there are mothers of large families , businesswomen , soldiers , scientists , doctors , teachers , cultural and sports figures , and journalists .
Industrial production in the first quarter of this year amounted to 263.5 billion tenge. in the first quarter of 2016 , the volume of industrial production amounted to 263.5 billion tenge , mining - 163.2 billion tenge , manufacturing - 70.6 billion tenge , " - the head of the region said .
this week we hold seminars with representatives, secretaries of territorial commissions, buglers, party chairmen, public organizations on information issues, "said A. Shayakhmetov.
after the Ufa summit, significant work was done to further improve the work of the shu, strengthen effective actions in the field of politics, security, the economy and humanitarian relations within the organization.
the arrival of new people will give rise to new ideas, "said e. Musetaev.
thank you very much to all the guys-rallists.
along the way, the alliance develops a common strategy for the work of non-governmental organizations, joins the work zone and represents the interests of various target groups at the regional and national levels.
the materials of the presidential competition for the "golden quality" were considered in all three nominations: "the best industrial enterprise," "the best enterprise for the production of goods for the population" and "the best service enterprise."
Governments, politicians, scientists, businessmen, artists and millions of people around the world must be mobilized to finally rid the world of the threat of war, preventing a repetition of the tragic mistakes of past centuries.
it is necessary to monitor the targeted spending of each penny, preventing inefficient scattering of funds in the current difficult economic conditions, "he said.
A demonstration example that the plant plans to present will be the es-145 flight simulator.
25.4 million tenge was allocated for preliminary events.
lower prices and demand did not prevent the oil industry. the reducing the price and demand had an impact on the oil industry .
the potential of cooperation that we have gives this opportunities, "said E. idrissov.
Today Kazakhstan is dynamically developing.
above all, it depends on our society.
in this case, an understanding of the majority of the population should be found.	i think this is the most important thing ,  - he said .
I wouldn't say it was an offence. i would not say that it is a violation .
Traditionally, the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2016" unites enterprises from different countries of the world engaged in the production of military equipment.
Azerbaijan has a positive attitude towards this decision of Kazakhstanis and expects approval by Nursultan Nazarbayev.
calm reigns in the country. there is the tranquility in our country .
The new century laid the foundation for the development and modernization of all spheres of society.
after a new treatment, Kostanay flour is sent not only to all of Kazakhstan, but also to Russia, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan.
Internal issues must be resolved in a timely and cooperative manner. our internal questions should be addressed quickly and smoothly .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that he considered in detail the proposals of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament on the early resignation of powers and the establishment of new elections.
now 280 children are brought up here.
Kazakhstan is currently developing its own transport and transit strategy. currently , kazakhstan gradually implements its own freight transit strategy .
now there are new rules for the selection of judges.
through the Mangistau Economic Council, we want to ensure socio-economic development in the region.
the state cannot immediately solve their problems.
trade went on until it offered a maximum price.
In addition, the construction of the plant will facilitate the import of cement from Russia by western Kazakhstan.
Also, according to him, the Kazakh experience of creating a multinational state is being studied in Hungary.
therefore, it is very important for us to work for Samsung.
in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the internal provisions of the new organization for the creation of an Islamic organization for food security were developed. in order to comply with the instructions of the head of state to establish the iofs the projects were developed , internal regulations of the new organization .
three days ago, a meeting of the Shu Foreign Ministers took place in Tashkent.
In 2015, Kazakhstan rose to 107th place in the global competitiveness index for "road quality."
Participants exchanged views on topical issues on the global agenda along with terrorism, the development of central Asia and China's "one belt, one road" strategy.
As you know, our state laid the foundations for the formation of statehood in ancient times. as you know , our ancestors in the distant past had laid the origins of the formation of the large state , which is now known all over the world .
Heads of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the International Organization for Migration, the Human Rights Committee, the UN High Commissariats for Human Rights and Refugees, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, law enforcement agencies of the Netherlands, Norway, Great Britain, Russia, as well as UN special rapporteurs on various issues.
This year, the emphasis of the Tadeh-2016 exhibition was placed on domestic entrepreneurs.
As a result, contracts were signed between Krendel Ekibastuz LLC and Alfa-Business LLC for the supply of confectionery equipment, Proskyp LLC and Sibtrans LLC for the supply of kumys to the Russian market.
An administrative agreement was signed on the basis of a joint declaration on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and unido and in accordance with the state program of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019 with the aim of attracting UNIDO expertise to support the efforts of the Government of Kazakhstan to industrialize the economy.
Now we are choosing land for a small market from brick, landscaped and carg settlements, "said Bekenov.
It is worth noting that in two weeks more than 100 recordings and videos from all over the country were published in the treasury with the hashtag # good and # delaidobro.
The main activity of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (aiib) is to promote economic development, create wealth and improve the interaction of infrastructure in Asia by investing in infrastructure and other productive sectors.
summits held at the initiative of the president of the country have brought significant benefits. the four summits held on the initiative of the us president have brought significant benefit for all .
We are confident that the signing of the memorandum will create a platform for mutually beneficial cooperation today, to be sure that the EXPO-2017 exhibition will be held at the highest level, "said A. Yessimov.
this will be one of the regional mechanisms for the transition to a green economy. "
our presidents worked closely together.
this law was adopted and entered into force on January 1, 2016.
- In general, it would be right for Kazakh and Hungarian scientists to investigate this issue together so that they identify mutual similarities and complement their research with mutually beneficial data.
Chairman of the Presidium of the Union of Oilfield Services Companies of Kazakhstan rashid zhaksylykov, Chairman of the Union of Oilfield Services Companies of Kazakhstan, General Director of the Union of Oilfield Services Companies of Kazakhstan bourgeois augambay, General Director of the Engineering Company Kazgiproneftetrans fuad serikov and and deputy General Director for the Development of New Projects of Temof TEMAshTAshaskir
By 2018, it is planned to bring the market share to 20%, and by 2020 - to 32%, "- said the mayor.
I instruct the government to prepare bankruptcy processes for individuals and legal entities. i instruct the government of kazakhstan to develop a clear , understandable bankruptcy procedure for natural and legal persons , do not worry about it .
The main topics of the discussion discussed the cooperation of Kazakhstan in the development of the agro-industrial complex.
the requirements of the organization's own program are equal to the requirements of preliminary, intermediate and housing loans of the bank.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan not only assesses the current economic situation, but also presents new initiatives, voicing proposals for their implementation is very relevant for diplomats, "A.Ničkasov.
in this regard, it is necessary to study international experience in this area, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During this period, we witnessed that the population was formed in an independent republic for years, striving for growth, "said B. Sagintayev.
commemorative silver coins made in terms of proof quality are intended for sale at a collectible value.
On behalf of the head of state, we clarified that the King of Spain invited Philip to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit. we have reaffirmed that the head of state invited the king felipe to visit kazakhstan .
During the talks, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of the development of bilateral partnership, as well as exchanged views on the prospects of infrastructure, trade, economic, investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands.
education will be provided in three languages - Kazakh, Russian and English.
During the meeting, K. Kelimbetov informed British partners about the project of the International Financial Center "Capital" (ahko) and its goals and main activities.
In the future, after the completion of all the main construction work, asphalt pavement will be laid and the surroundings will be landscaped.
According to T.Balykbayev, at the meeting of the commission, the values ​ ​ of the Kazakh people and issues of its propaganda were discussed.
Given that major reforms have begun in Kazakhstan, you should not forget about the presence of a strong parliament, he said.
Kairbek Rostenbayev informed the meeting about the structural reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan, stressing that their main goal is to create a new model of the structural economy.
During the visit, the head of state will take part in the summit on nuclear security.
In addition, it is planned to carry out 7 projects in the amount of 79.4 billion tenge with a share of private investors of 70%.
Kazakhstan produces better products than analogues of foreign goods, "B.Sagintayev said.
The purpose of the forum is to create conditions for improving relations between domestic producers and consumers, to discuss topical issues of business cooperation.
In addition to the city leadership, the event was attended by deputies of the maslikhat, representatives of youth associations, rectors of higher educational institutions, heads of state bodies, schoolchildren, students and residents of the city.
The deal in the amount of 1.5 billion tenge will be financed under the program "Nұrly zhol" in order to support Kazakhstan's export of goods in the manufacturing industry.
now it is delivered only to the regions of our country, "said the chairman of the board of directors.
The organizers of the III forum are the Committee on Judicial Reform and Legislation of the Majilis of Parliament, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Legal Council under the Nұr Otan Party, the capital's eiku office and the law enforcement academy at the Prosecutor General's Office.
Head of the organizing committee of the university games, Deputy Prime Minister of Darig Nazarbayev and Mayor of Almaty met with Bauyrzhan Baybek.
Large-scale work is underway in the region on landscaping and improvement of settlements. the region carried out huge work on gardening and landscaping settlements .
It should be noted that the EU is the largest trading and investment partner of Kazakhstan.
Compared to the same period in 2015, 121.6% was fulfilled.
we are confident that this project will contribute to the implementation of the tasks of the agreements reached with European partners. we hope that this project will contribute to the implementation of the tasks , the agreements , reached with the european colleagues that are available .
Today is a very important political event, since candidates for parliament, for the highest legislative bodies and for local representation will be elected. today it is a very important political event because there are the elections of the members of the parliament , the supreme legislative body , and the local representative bodies .
Until the end of 2016 the implementation of the state program "Nrla zhol" will promote creation about 20 thousand jobs", - the minister told.
The purpose of this plant is the development of technologies and production from local production, "said A. Pupar-lafarge.
Today Kazakhstan pays great attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
As the heads of sports departments of the two states noted, Kazakhstan and Senegal create favorable conditions for the development of cooperation in such sports as boxing, football, athletics and wrestling.
On November 30, the head of state in his message noted the need for active work on the development of agricultural cooperation, outreach to farmers and agricultural producers. on november 30 , 2015 , during the announcement of the address to the people of kazakhstan , we heard that it 's necessary to activate the explanatory work to inform the farmers about the work on the development of agricultural cooperatives .
Institutional reforms are aimed at becoming one of the 30 developed countries in 20150, "he said.
Recall, on March 24, the CEC registered deputies of the Majilis of the parliament of the 5th convocation.
we were already preparing for these elections before today's meeting. we have been preparing for these elections .
JSC "Aktobesteelproduction" started exploration works.
In all regions of the country, people traditionally celebrate a holiday.
the company can export not only to the regions of Kazakhstan, but also to the markets of Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, "said A. Saparov.
In the capital of the Middle Kingdom, the head of government took part in the 3rd meeting of the Kazakh-Chinese business council.
According to the law, political parties pay each candidate included in the party list 15 mt i.e. 342,885 tenge. as per the law , the electoral fund of the political parties for each candidate will make 15 minimum wages or 342,885 tenge .
in his speech, the head of the marat demeow delegation spoke about the work of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the central Asian regional information center for combating drug trafficking, located in Almaty, and also proposed specific measures to counter this threat.
Professor Colin Knox conducted research in the field of public sector reform in many countries, such as China, Russia, Latvia, Georgia, Bangladesh, etc.
The expert center of the library of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the leader of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan) together with the subjective coordinating office of the International Organization for Migration in Central Asia (hereinafter - khu).
In addition, as part of the participation of the B.Sagintayev, he held meetings with the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, the President of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the citic construction company Hong Bom, the Governor of Shaanxi Lou Qingjiang Province ang.
there is a subsidizing program for agricultural producers.
According to the founders of the prize - the Russian Institute of Biography and the Institute of Economic Strategies, Nursultan Nazarbayev received an award for outstanding achievements in international politics and his contribution to strengthening the Eurasian Economic Union.
firstly, in terms of the global competitiveness index of the Davos Economic Forum, Kazakhstan took 42nd place in the world.
we not only maintained these ties over the years of independence, but also brought our states closer together. over the independence years we have managed to preserve those good relations we had before and managed to become even close .
Also in the Zhambyl region, work is underway to create a special economic zone "Taraz Chemical Park."
all requirements and tasks that meet international standards will be optimized, "said the Chairman of the National Bank.
During the talks, the parties discussed a wide range of topical issues in the nuclear energy, oil and gas industry, energy efficiency and alternative energy development.
the winners of the competition will be directed to practical training on starting a business "business hardcore method" based on kko.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country attaches special importance to the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, this union has great potential for the development of its member states.
this is another concrete step towards strengthening democracy. this is a positive step towards strengthening democracy in kazakhstan .
During the meeting, issues of strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation between Kazakhstan and Romania were discussed, especially in the development of trade and economic ties in the agrarian sphere, Kazakhstan's efforts in promoting global interreligious and intercultural dialogue were announced.
According to the Foreign Ministry, the Kazakh side was headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbayev, Deputy Minister of Justice Elvira Azimov, Deputy Minister for Investment and Development Rahim Oshakbayev.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the steam country team for 2016-2020. within the framework of the framework partnership for development.
The head of the region instructed work on the introduction of domestic composition into production.
The President in his message called on the population to trust the national currency. in the address to the people the president talked about public 's trust in our currency .
The Kremlin will be attended by heads of foreign affairs departments, the secretariat and the joint headquarters of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, the statement said.
The event will be attended by Minister of Internal Affairs Yerlan Idrissov, heads of central state bodies, UN Permanent Representative in Kazakhstan norimas shimomura, heads of diplomatic missions and international financial organizations.
According to the CEO of the Finnish company Mark Ekman, the main activity of Veo is a comprehensive engineer who provides the supply of services and equipment necessary for the reconstruction of new and existing industrial and energy facilities.
they relate to the ratification of intergovernmental agreements with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the establishment and operation of offices in Kazakhstan, as well as on the promotion and mutual protection of investments with Macedonia.
Natural growth of the population of the republic in January-December 2014. compared to January-December, it decreased by 2.1 thousand people or 0.8% and amounted to 266.7 (268.8) thousand people.
Modernization of infrastructure in Kazakhstan is proceeding at a high pace, "Vice President of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy noted.
Today, the North Kazakhstan region produces 500 thousand tons of milk. today , north-kazakhstan region produces 500 thousand tons of milk , which is about 10 % of the national volume .
we actively participate there and observe concrete steps of the migration and visa regime.
- Chairman of Almaty city branch, General Director of Kazavtobusprom JSC Dmitry Vasiliev;
As noted in the message, a special offer has been prepared for the first buyers.
Governor of Aktobe region B. Saparbayev, Vice Minister of Culture and Sports M. Azilkhanov took part in the seminar.
aspa is the most important professional association with more than 75 years of history. the aspa is one of the most important professional associations with more than a 75-year history .
I think that today's meeting will increase the experience of dialogue between culture and religion, and new ideas and directions in the fight against terrorism will be presented on your part, "the head of state said.
a special role in the selection of state symbols was played by the president of n.nazarbayev.
here passengers will be able to use parking lots, parking lots, hotels, cafes and laundry facilities.
The numerical mine system will be implemented before the end of the year in Tthk LLP.
During the event, organizational and technical issues of the exhibition, prospects for bilateral cooperation in the field of renewable and alternative energy were discussed.
the reason is that this is due to the wise policies of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In independent Kazakhstan, the Presidential Strategy 2050 provides for the country to join the number of 30 developed states, "said a Russian expert 100kadam.kz. in an interview.
our capital will develop as a business, cultural and scientific center of Eurasia and have a modern international transport and logistics system, including a new airport terminal.
they saw what we experienced, "said the head of state.
Recall that the opening of new facilities in the metropolis was made possible thanks to the efforts of local authorities to create favorable conditions for investment and business.
Opening the meeting, Mr. Abdikalikova noted that the head of state in the message "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development" instructed to develop as much as possible a system of training highly qualified specialists capable of fulfilling state tasks as part of the implementation of anti-crisis measures and structural changes for the diversification and industrialization of the country's economy.
since this year, a special reserve has been allocated in the republican budget for the execution of additional instructions. in order to implement the additional tasks this year the national budget allocates an additional special reserve intended to finance the operational anti-crisis measures .
At the same time, upon completion of the relevant work, the government will report on plans for the near future, "he said.
In general, in the capital there are those who work from Australia, Thailand, Ukraine and other states.
Last year we celebrated the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
Therefore, the implementation of joint projects of the Eurasian Economic Union, the great silk road and nұrly zhol will allow large-scale development throughout the Eurasian continent within the framework of trade in all sectors of the economy, "the Vice Minister concluded.
The initiative of members of the Majilis of Parliament to hold early elections is the most important public and political news in the life of our country. the initiative of the deputies to hold snap elections in the majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels is a very important and political event in the life of our country .
the first is at the national bank.
The basis of development is "green energy," - said B. Zhumagulov.
One of the main information sources for the situation center will be the numerical mine system, another transformation project that prevents the human factor in the uranium production process.
The Deputy Prime Minister also drew attention to the appeals of citizens.
government is mandatory. kazakhstan needs trustworthy majilis .
President Nazarbayev has identified Kazakhstan as the safest and most comfortable place for the world to live since independence, "the Secretary of State said.
This affects every country, including Kazakhstan, "said Zh.Askakov.
According to the requirements of the crirsco committee, relevant documents have been prepared. we have prepared all the necessary documents in accordance with the requirements of crirsco committee .
As part of the visit of the Minister of Foreign Trade to Korea, the work of the All-Russian Academy of Foreign Trade and the Korean International Economic Institute began.
During the speech, after the election campaign, Kazakhstan plans to conduct an afternoon study of parliamentary elections for residents of the country.
four participants received high points for their business ideas and three of them are registered as individual entrepreneurs.
I instruct the Central Election Commission and all competent state bodies to ensure legality, transparency and fairness in the upcoming elections.
these documents will allow you to familiarize yourself with the stages of development of the country's foreign policy. the documents provide a unique opportunity to get acquainted with the documents reflecting the stages of development of our foreign policy .
index of the volume of production - 101.2%.
The head of state took the initiative to hold such an event.
"with its help, research is being carried out to identify specific areas of the organization."
As the theme of the forum, the energy of the future "" Astana will give a new impetus to expo 2017, the development of innovation, cooperation on energy issues. "
I want to thank you for the high level of this meeting. i want to express my gratitude for the high level of the meeting .
- Our republic is one of the leading economic partners of Belarus.
I am grateful to Kazakhstan for the choice, including in Almaty, "said A.Peshkov.
The event was attended by deputies of the Romanian Parliament, representatives of academic, scientific and public circles.
The instructions of the naval forces for 2016 are the organization of high-quality combat duty in the command of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the organization of interaction with higher bodies of the military administration for the participation of ships of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the army games of 2016, the organization of activities within the framework of military-technical cooperation with the Caspian states for the exchange of experience in the creation and development of naval forces.
cleansing the world of nuclear weapons is a guarantee of global security, our country and President Nursultan Nazarbayev call for the renunciation of nuclear weapons, calling on humanity in the 21st century to create a world without nuclear weapons.
the strategic document of our government in the program for the development of health care until 2019 specifically spells out the development of PPPs and infrastructure. as for the public-private partnership , probably it is the first time when the strategic documents of our government has the entire section dedicated to the development of infrastructure and ppp in health sector .
these projects are part of reforms to move away from the budgetary risk of the water industry and increase its investment attractiveness.
The extraordinary XVII Congress of the Nur Otan Party is a historical event.
- Maybe it was necessary to introduce this project earlier?
According to him, now these criteria are being improved.
this is not the next stage of modernization, it is designed to create and preserve new jobs.
Answering questions from representatives of the garden, Nursultan Nazarbayev said that he discussed with the heads of European councils and European commissions further prospects for EU-EU cooperation
among them the creation of a state professional apparatus and others.
I believe that the message of President Nazarbayev plays an important role in the future development of Kazakhstan, "said A. Mukatov.
The goal arrived is to familiarize yourself with the implementation of infrastructure projects in the region that make up the transit corridor.
According to K. Kamill, foreign companies are interested in implementing the Nұrly Zhol program.
Recall that the Government of Kazakhstan donated to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan the technical structure of this project (creation and financing of the construction of a 2-story educational building).
This is a record figure compared to the data of past meetings, "said K. Turgankulov.
work is underway in Kazakhstan to revive all state, public, private institutions, social responsibility, targeted assistance.
International organizations, diplomatic corps, state body, cultural figures, leaders of youth organizations and representatives of non-state organizations will take part as guests of the evening.
On the same day, one of the main events of aef-2016 will be held - a forum of silk road countries, designed to unite representatives of European, Asian and Middle Eastern governments and businesses.
A report on the opportunities of German business in the manufacturing industry, agro-industrial complex, transport and logistics was made by the head of the German economy in Central Asia, the yorg hatch.
credentials were presented to the head of state: permanent coordinator of the UN, permanent representative of the UN in Kazakhstan, ambassador of the Israeli state Mikhail Brodsky, ambassador of Uzbekistan caviar nazars, Azerbaijani ambassador rashad einaddin oglu mammads, ambassador of the Thai kingdom nat pinowatat.
The parties expressed interest in the implementation of joint investment projects in the field of agriculture, pharmaceuticals, information technology and tourism.
I instruct the Central Election Commission and all competent state bodies to ensure legality, transparency and fairness in the upcoming elections.
According to the president, 77 trains will pass along the Osif route in 2013, 1100 are expected this year.
According to K. Tokayev, for such countries as Kazakhstan and Russia, it is very important to constantly exchange views and consult at the level of chairmen of legislative bodies.
Which countries should accept experience?
In addition, territories were allocated in the capital, Petropavlovsk, Kyzylorda, Karaganda, Uralsk, where new institutions will be created within the framework of the program, "said B. Berdalin.
One of the main issues during the negotiations was the implementation of projects on a bilateral agreement on raw materials, industrial and technological partnership.
Active work is also underway to attract more than 20 transnational companies from Russia, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
According to akim of Ulan district daulet batyrbaev, attraction of investment projects is one of priority directions of implementation of state policy.
The parties that signed the memorandum also received obligations for cooperation in the field of culture, art, physical culture and sports.
- We have revised all approaches to the old wage system for civil servants.
Every Kazakhstani who considers himself a patriot should mobilize all his forces and strive to prevent a global economic crisis, "he said.
education will be provided in three languages - Kazakh, Russian and English.
The largest project is the construction of the Aktogai mining and processing complex.
on the same day b. Nusupov held talks with the president of the German holding dorsch grupping holding in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to attract foreign investors to the economy of Kazakhstan.
we have great respect for what is happening in Poland. we have great respect for what is being done in poland .
involved a large international consulting company pricewater housecoopers (pwc), which presented a master plan with proposals for organizing production for small and medium-sized businesses.
Some Kazakhstani company intends to supply its thermal insulation chambers for further installation on Belarusian "bearing" targeting complexes.
The head of state also drew attention to the importance of sharing the experience of Kazakhstan and Turkey in terms of holding the expo 2016 in Antalya and the expo 2017 in the capital.
The statement of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev related to the progress in the implementation of the comprehensive joint action plan on the Iranian nuclear program outlined the position of Kazakhstan in the settlement of the case on this issue. the statement by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , made in connection with the progress in the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of actions for the iranian nuclear program , testifies the consistent position of kazakhstan for the settlement of the situation around this problem .
the work of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of Parliament was very productive. the work of the fifth convocation of the majilis of the parliament was very productive .
A. Vucic expressed hope that the President of Kazakhstan will pay a working visit to Serbia, the report said.
The High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy asked the Mogerinikazakhstan to assist in the implementation of the deal as the coordinator of the joint commission of the Six international allies (Germany, China, Russia, Great Britain and France) and Iran.
14,525 graduates did not reach the level of 50 points or about 17 percent. 14,252 graduates or 17 % did not reach the threshold 50 points .
the accreditation of international observers ended yesterday.
new research on ericsson in the field of "green" technologies was presented for the Kazakh delegate.
representatives of the XII extraordinary congress of the village party decided to take part in the elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
equipment with special equipment (fire fighting machines, snow removal and anti-icing equipment, stairs).
During the meeting, the parties discussed the further development of multifaceted cooperation between Kazakhstan and China, noting the successful results of the 5th meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia.
today, the territory of the "green belt" has become the habitat of hares, foxes, nameplates and savages.
It is necessary to continue the implementation of various economic and cultural projects between our regions and the Iranian provinces. we need to continue the implementation of various economic and cultural projects between the region and the provinces of iran .
The meeting also discussed issues of Russia's participation in the upcoming international specialized exhibition Astana Expo-2017.
The production, which seats 50 people, plans to produce more than 13 thousand pairs of cotton gloves per year and produce products in the domestic market and in the CIS countries.
with the full implementation of these projects, 19.9 thousand jobs will be created.
The parties considered the implementation of Kazakhstan's international obligations in the field of protecting the rights of women and girls and empowering them.
It is very pleasant that he will hold an important administrative event this spring and confidently begin to fulfill important tasks facing the country with a new and strong composition, "he said.
I am grateful for participating in the construction of the plant, "said B. Saparbayev.
In accordance with the adopted law, we create tractor and machine stations on the basis of cooperatives, "said B. Kamkulov.
this combines best practices with productivity gains. this is in conjunction with the application of best practices , which will cause a corresponding increase in the productivity .
According to the regional Governor's Office, a list of 52 projects worth 24.5 billion tenge has been formed in the region, 35 of which do not require payment of investment costs.
in these conditions, the words of the nomad of the nation are very important to us.
in general, the consolidation of the rule of law in Kazakhstan is our constitutional task, solved as part of a single modernization process.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (hereinafter - OECD), following a bilateral meeting of the Ministers of Employment, Labor and Social Security of the participating countries in Paris, the Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Tamara Dusenova and the Minister of Labor and Social Security of Turkey agreed to sign a memorandum of cooperation on social security issues.
the book will be useful for all readers interested in issues of international politics, interreligious communication and the connection of cultures.
we call on all political parties to conduct an honest and open struggle in new elections, "the report said.
close cooperation will also be established with universities of countries such as Europe, Asia, America.
We plan to rent 94.2 thousand square meters of housing or 1463 apartments, "he said.
In January 2016, a new comprehensive privatization plan for 2016-2020 will be approved, as well as a draft decree providing for the reduction of the list of objects not subject to alienation to the presidential administration and parliament, a bill providing for the abolition of priority rights of all shareholders of the quasi-public sector to acquire alienated assets, "the minister said.
including transformers, ceramics, personal building materials, furniture.
appreciate our friendship, our partnership.
happy groove - eku\diakb (Republic of Serbia)
Under your leadership, Kazakhstan has quickly embarked on a powerful development path.
In 2015, within the framework of the industrialization map, there are 11 industrial and infrastructure projects totaling 50.5 billion tenge.
It should also be noted that the memorandum was signed by the Kazakhstan program "Nұrly zhol" in order to coordinate the Chinese initiative "economic belt of the silk road" and promote the joint prosperity of the two countries in the field of investment in Kazakh-Chinese industrial projects.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the first visit of al-Sisi to Kazakhstan as President of Egypt will contribute to strengthening the partnership between the two countries.
Thus, a major international project in the field of gas transportation in the areas of energy and regional partnership has been fully completed during the years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
some positions - for example, an increase in the amount of the loan under the "will" program - such conditions as rising prices for livestock, machinery, workshop and equipment.
this step takes into account that the economic situation in the world and the conditions for the development of geopolitics will be much faster than we thought. " Shauken.
In addition, he spoke about the Academy of Law Enforcement Agencies at the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan and expressed interest in establishing ties between the Academy and leading French educational and scientific institutions, including the French National Administrative School, the Higher National Police School, and the National School of Magistracy.
A large number of innovations are dedicated to those who want to study in business education, who want to get an iam degree, and this year the program will be updated. it is a great new for those who want to get business education , the mba program is resumed this year .
many investors recognize that in our area there are all conditions for business development. "
The sides discussed the state of trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as the state of partnership in the production, transit, transport and communication spheres.
It is necessary to create thousands of jobs and double labor productivity. we need to create 660 thousand new jobs and increase productivity by 2 times .
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov will take part in the press conference.
the most important thing for a woman is the family, the feeling of motherhood, caring for the family, caring for the future generation.
The purpose of the program is to improve the quality of tourist services provided for meeting guests at the international exhibition expo-2017, as well as improve the situation in this area for the further development of the capital as an attractive tourist center.
global challenges and trends have some impact on Kazakhstan. global challenges and trends influence on kazakhstan economy .
According to the Executive Director of the Foundation of the First President of Kazakhstan, this meeting will improve relations between the two countries.
As part of the implementation of the 35-36 steps of the National Plan, 100 concrete steps in the framework of the introduction of a new mechanism for transferring agricultural land to private property were adopted by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 2, 2015 "On Amending and Supplementing the Land Code," which enters into force on July 1, 2016.
there was also a need to diversify sources of financing in the light of economic conditions.
The opening of the complex was attended by the Minister of Culture and Sports, Mayor of Almaty Bauyrzhan baibek, President of the international federation of judo marius vizier, President of the federation of judo council of rakish.
we must adapt to this situation.
therefore, in my opinion, the exchange of various views and approaches will give a new impetus to the development of the public procurement system, "the minister said.
in the winter evening hall, the President of Kazakhstan held meetings with the heads of other states.
in this case, the Communist Party faces a difficult task - to organize an election campaign accordingly, "said V. Sosarev.
At this exercise, the Kazakh group was entrusted with the destruction of militant bases, the arrest of their leader and the evacuation from the territory for further investigation. during these exercises the kazakh team had to destroy a militant base of militia , capture their leader , and evacuate from the territory for further questioning .
I believe that the time has come to get a new mandate trust of the population and youth, "said E. Tuletayev.
at the same time, the speaker expressed a positive reaction to the transformation into political and socio-economic in Kazakhstan.
In accordance with the budget code, these changes made it easy to obtain a state guarantee for considering investments in infrastructure projects.
we will establish bilateral and conflict relations with states that will exchange information about the property of Kazakhstanis abroad.
for example, stimulates social activity of young people, educates social responsibility, promotes patriotism, improves the quality of leadership, covers and supports mutual understanding of students.
As the Minister noted, we are actively cooperating with the international consortium of industrial Internet.
the number of participants in the job fair - 307 people, including men - 176, women - 131, youth under 29 - 79.
It is important to note that at a new stage, parliament should not only discuss and vote for the president's decision, but also be a source of ideas and constructive proposals for the government, "the Russian expert said.
With regard to new investment policies, transnational corporations needed to attract private investment, develop regional drivers of economic growth, and fully develop export potential in global and regional markets.
clients of the center were interested in the state program for supporting entrepreneurs, "the report said.
In the 2012 elections, 5 candidates contested. during the elections in 2012 , we registered five candidates .
Major General of Reserve Dikhanbek Satzhanov and Director of Corporate Development Department of Kazakhstan Engineering JSC became owners of the Order of Honor.
The main thing, as far as I know, when energy prices in Kazakhstan fluctuate, the government, by order of the president, will create a social elevator, a "social pillow," which will allow poor categories of people not to be affected by the economic downturn, "he said.
- I haven't lived in Kazakhstan for a long time, but I noticed that a very tolerant society has formed here.
Therefore, there are great prospects for the modernization of the great silk road between Kazakhstan and Shaanxi province, "the diplomat said.
The head of state pays attention to the production industry in the country, which is in a large competitive environment with our producers, as well as with foreign manufacturers. head of the state pays special attention to the development of processing industry , but our producers have faced with high competitors from abroad , and the eaeu .
Former President of the European Commission and former Prime Minister of Italy Prodi drew attention to the great potential for the development of relations between the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union, which can benefit all parties, including Kazakhstan.
This year, work will continue on the implementation of the Business Roadmap programs. this year , work on the implementation of the business roadmap will be continued .
Azerbaijan leads the ranking of CIS countries, Kazakhstan (42nd place) ahead of Russia by 3 points.
The head of state expressed satisfaction with the agreements reached in terms of Cuban support for the candidacy of Kazakhstan during the election of a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
concert programs, New Year's circus performances were organized in the city.
According to the president's message, it is mandatory to open a training center with foreign partners - Canada, Singapore, Great Britain, Australia, etc.
In these areas, financing will amount to 17 billion tenge, "he said.
The head of the department spoke about the achievements in the field of domestic cinematography.
Moreover, most of these significant funds are directed to emergencies, urgent needs, "said the head of the department.
the congress set important goals - to implement the program facing Kazakhstanis through public force, "he said.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the project "Improvement of criminal justice in Kazakhstan" is to support judicial reform carried out in Kazakhstan in accordance with international standards.
Also last year, the project of the Kazenergosbereenie partnership "Production of light lighting devices," which is innovative, was implemented.
The main format of the work provides for the organization of projects of various levels, Olympiads, distance competitions dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The sides paid special attention to the need for further comprehensive expansion of bilateral economic cooperation, effective and full use of the transit and transport potential of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway connection, which provides for the connection of Chinese seaports through the territory of Kazakhstan in the trade and transport direction with the Persian Gulf, the possibility of simplifying the visa regime for tourists and business, as well as cooperation in the format of Caspian negotiations.
then the heads of national commissions took part in the regional women's forum "Family is the eternal pillar of the country."
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov presented to the council the methods of information and image work of the department.
in addition, on the same day, the head of government got acquainted with the activities of the Hong Kong scientific and technological park.
In 1984, the period from his appointment to the post of chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Kazakh SSR until he became president of independent Kazakhstan in 1991 is outlined.
This measure is aimed at implementing the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the field of space activities.
I am proud to sign the memorandum. i am very proud to sign the memorandum .
at present, all conditions have been created for the conduct of a quality educational process. "
in other words, I do not agree that all data are in bright control, because, as international experience shows, this is wrong. on the other hand , i do not agree that the data are publicly administered , because the international practice shows that it is wrong .
I listened with great interest to information about kha. "
it has a bedroom, play rooms, assembly and sports halls, a health room, a dining room equipped with modern equipment.
He also noted that in December 2015, the visit of the Prime Minister of the Netherlands to the capital was fruitful.
Kazakhstan can provide a clear response to the global economic crisis.
The unique history of Kazakhstan contributed to the initial negotiations of Iran on the development of an agreement on the nuclear problem with Russia, China, Great Britain, France and Germany.
just met with the central election commission of Kazakhstan. today we have met with the chairman of the cec of kazakhstan to discuss the organizational matters .
This year, echelon is held for the first time in Central Asia.
I propose to actively use the current g-global virtual interactive platform in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
the parties discussed the current state and prospects for the development of the organization's activities in various areas, its role and place in international and regional affairs.
In the message, the head of state addressed every citizen of the country. the president 's address was delivered for every citizen of our country .
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed ways to strengthen bilateral cooperation by expanding trade and economic cooperation, relations in the field of education, culture, sports, agriculture and continuing political dialogue.
decision "on the formation and conduct of a common list of products when establishing mandatory requirements within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union."
you are a prominent statesman of the world. you are the outstanding statesman recognized around the world .
The leader of the nation supported this initiative taking into account the economic situation.
In 2016, it is planned to support 170 projects within the framework of all tools of the Unified Business Support and Development Program "Business Roadmap 2020."
this is the first work to clarify, "said Viktor Khristenko.
therefore, we studied craft.
Kazakhstan is a state of peace and peace, which we learn.
As part of the investment program of Astana-Heat Transmission JSC, 12.1 km of pipelines were reconstructed, 7.2 km of orphan heat networks were restored.
he also noted the importance of the creation of an international financial center "capital" for the activities of the EBRD and expressed interest in the privatization process in the country.
The Kazakh delegation included representatives of the presidential administration, the supreme court, the general prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the Ministry of Education and Science, the national center for the protection of human rights and a non-governmental organization.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, during the meeting each project was considered separately and approved.
the Kazakh-Hungarian Strategic Council, the intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation, the business council, as well as the joint Kazakh direct investment fund in agriculture operate between our countries.
it is planned to supply bed products, dishes, an oven, and a winter tent to this country.
the number of deaths during the period under review amounted to 34.4 (33.2) thousand people, which is 2015. 3.6% more than in January-March.
According to him, in order to implement this project, Mining Iron LLP in 2014 evaluated the technical condition of the entire production complex, as well as carried out all the necessary start-up and repair and reconstruction work.
the boundaries of polling stations are also announced in regional, district and city newspapers.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed hope that the international financial center of the capital will work for the entire region and will gain popularity over time.
Xavier-i-Martin expressed his expert opinion on improving Kazakhstan's competitiveness and achieving our country's sustainable economic growth in the medium and long term.
In connection with the presidential decree signed on January 20, elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels were approved on March 20, 2016.
Thanks to our unity and selfless work, we have maintained independence, striving for the realization of the goals of the "eternal country."
"A few days ago, kazatomprom signed an agreement with the kameko global uranium mining company to increase its stake in the Incaid joint venture of Kazatomprom," the minister said.
in the modern world, all developed states are single nations.
recently, the world geopolitical situation has been in a tense state. nowadays the world is undergoing a complex and contradictory development stage .
I can say with great confidence that the upcoming exhibition will be held at a high level, "he said.
In this regard, I thank the athletes and your coaches for the work done, "the minister said.
having studied these plans, we developed a program. "
In the 1st quarter of this year, 11 contracts were concluded for 25 blocks, which will contribute to the receipt of additional taxes to the budget and create jobs next to the single-industry town. during the first quarter of this year , 11 contracts for 25 blocks that give additional tax revenues to the budget and create new jobs around the company towns were concluded .
During the event, the sides exchanged views on deepening bilateral cooperation on the development of innovations and new technologies.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed his opinion on the problems of the modern world structure and the role of Kazakhstan in the international arena.
vi The international forum of young scientists will be held at the Kazakh-American Free University.
I noticed that the artists worked very well.
The volumes and nomenclature of deliveries of Uzbek fruit and vegetable products to the countries of the customs union using ktzh and white logistics infrastructure were agreed.
The National Commission on Family and Demographic Policy has prepared a gender equality strategy for 2006-2016.
they will pave the way for solving a set of historical problems that will change Kazakhstan, its economy, the state and society.
The new composition of the parliament should be inclined to implement the anti-crisis program, "said an Azerbaijani expert.
in East Kazakhstan region, two objects were selected for carrying out repairs aimed at improving energy efficiency and reducing heat and lighting costs: a "specialized preschool orphanage with a height of" mm "and a" specialized child's home "kmm.
Around the world, the economy is weakening, and our leader has found the opportunity to increase wages for health, education and social workers.
The rector of the Azeran Institute, Dr. Tohid Meklikzadeh (Iran), noted the constructive and successful mission of Kazakhstan to strengthen peace in the Middle East region.
Note that the training complex of this class exists only in three countries: Kazakhstan, Norway and Kazakhstan.
According to the head of the department, the implementation of the convention will not require financial costs from the state budget.
I think that when the people will confidently look at our currency, when there will be a unit of measurement of the national currency, the authority of tenge will be increased and we will collect a deposit in tenge, "said V.Ku.
we also feel the cooling of the global crisis at a certain level. because of the global crisis we feel certain challenges .
I instruct the Government to proceed with its establishment.
a crisis is an opportunity for others if there are difficulties.
previously time was 10 years. before , the period was 10 years , now it has been extended for 25 years .
this is the second project successfully implemented within the framework of the company and banking partnership. this is the second successful project in partnership with the bank .
the judicial system in Kazakhstan has become open, transparent, and the professionalism of judges has increased. the judicial system in kazakhstan has become more open , more transparent , and the professionalism of judges has been improved .
Also, the "Roadmap for the development of trilingual education in organizations of all levels of education of East Kazakhstan region for 2016-2019" was agreed and developed in Kazakhstan.
we consider our country a full-fledged partner in Europe, we have common interests on this issue, "A. Issekeshev emphasized.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan is responsible for testing this difficult situation.
During the visit, it is planned to visit a number of facilities, as well as the participation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the republican forum "Our strength is in unity," dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence.
As he noted, Kazakhstan is currently conducting an investment project together with a Korean company.
I came at the invitation of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I am very interested in the work on holding elections, solving technical issues, "he added.
and, in the future, promotion to the career stage of civil servants will be carried out through competitive selection.
The products are created for Kazakhstan, and it is possible to export it abroad, "said Salim Erball.
the implementation of joint projects with khku will accelerate the pace of renewal of economic sectors, increase their investment attractiveness and carry out the necessary structural reforms in the economy.
we regularly meet with you, we are currently working to further develop strategic cooperation.
The head of the region noted the importance of developing work in this direction and instructed the akims of all districts and cities to intensify work on the implementation of new public-private partnership projects.
six years ago in Georgia, this is a Singaporean miracle. "
This is the second event of international conferences before EXPO-2017.
the industry, starting with aerospace, automotive, energy, biomedical, as well as construction and agriculture, is changing under the influence of technological revolutionary transformations, "he said.
the overall inflation rate fell 0.2 times lower than the republican average and amounted to 112.1% (112.3%).
But due to the expansion of the microdistrict, their number will increase, "said the director of the Auganbayev gulfard school.
As the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, assistance to women's entrepreneurship is one of the state priorities of the country. "
I think my colleagues agree that the electoral process is developing well in your country, "he summed up.
In this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the republic is constantly paying attention to issues of support and education of youth, including this work is carried out within the framework of the state program "Impulse-2050."
The first half of the 90s - a crisis, unemployment, without a salary, without pensions, we all passed.
The head of state noted that three identical transport routes are currently being connected between our countries - railway, road and Caspian, which positively affects the further development of relations.
K. Dzhakupov noted Turkmenistan's commitment to the principles of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world and congratulated this country on joining the Magat organization in September this year.
equipment used by investors was laid down in Semaz LLP.
I believe that the day of gratitude will become a good tradition and will become one of the most beloved holidays of our people, "the president said.
Over the past 10 years, Turkish business investments in our economy have exceeded $2 billion.
He noted that according to monitoring data, according to the results of the 1st quarter, 68 people decreased at 13 enterprises.
we, representatives of the chemical and petrochemical industry trade union, support early elections to the Majilis of parliament. we , the representatives of the trade union of chemical and petrochemical industries , fully support the decision on the dissolution of the mazhilis .
development of resource potential helped to create a large independent economy, solve social issues, and form an anti-crisis fund.
I wish you good health, happiness, prosperity and well-being from the bottom of my heart! "- said in a congratulation.
During the year, American companies will be launched on new materials and financial technologies materia and a center on financial technologies fintech, combined centers with ibm.
during the meeting he was unanimously elected chairman of the coordinating committee of the Trans-Caspian international transport corridor (thkd).
representatives of the White House, government agencies, the Department of Commerce and American business also spoke in the convention.
According to Rustam Khalilev, Director of Transport of the residential complex of the capital, the route network does not change with one-way traffic.
we regard this as a sign of our special relationship. we value it as a sign of our special relations .
We informed the residents, "said the chairman.
everything will be implemented according to the plan, "said A. Sabyrkhanov.
most of the budget is aimed at increasing social spending, which amounted to 39.4% in the budget structure and increased by 2.8 trillion tenge.
A. Tantraporn noted that "Kazakhstan and Thailand have high potential to expand cooperation in the field of trade and investment."
This working group should draw up a plan of measures for the implementation of the project of free technical and vocational education in Kazakhstan, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
This is clearly stated in the institutional program document of the leader of the nation.
During the report, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, immediately supported this idea.
especially for the development of long-term small and medium-sized businesses.
A special valuation commission is used to assign partner status.
information technology, innovation, medicine and agriculture.
in the context of the global economic crisis, of course, the conflict between key global players has worsened in the international arena.
Now we are in the stage of determination of athletes who will take part in University games. currently , we try to make up a list of participants .
the state program in the region was used by entrepreneurs of chrome, Mughalzhar and advanced regions.
in addition, at an evening performed by a wonderful opera singer and choir "Astana Opera." We recall the aria of the odabella from the Verdean opera attila, "said the Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
gender inequality is the focus not only of developing countries but also of developed countries. the gender equality is important not only in developing countries , but it is more relevant in developed countries .
This year, an updated education and science program will be adopted. this year the updated state program for development of education and science will be adopted .
this year, the fair can collect even more.
social security of workers of member states is an important area of ​ ​ integration cooperation of the EAEU countries.
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan highly appreciates the desire of Iranian companies for constructive cooperation and wished them fruitful work.
it is a name that accurately gives the character of our good times and all the great achievements.
according to him, due to the fact that the authority of the president is so high in the world, Kazakhstan has become a square interfaith dialogue between all religions and economic forums.
According to him, the amount of microcredit will be increased from 3 million tenge to 6 million tenge, "Aidasheva told representatives of the garden.
At the meeting, the parties discussed the environmental state of the region, and also discussed a number of works.
D.Akishev noted that last year was difficult for the Kazakh economy, and therefore monetary policy was radically changed.
friendship, mutual respect and understanding have become our pride, common property.
new specialties have been created at the enterprise: a designer operator of sewing equipment, an operator of textile production, an adjuster of computer sewing equipment, and an IT specialist of automated production.
V. As noted by Syzdykova, the goal of our center is the development and preservation of national-cultural values ​ ​ for the modern Kazakh family.
To establish the capital as a world-class financial center, new international directions will be opened until 2019 with leading financial centers such as Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong.
this document should clearly guide the goals, objectives and measures, enrich the preliminary results of gender, family and defographic policies.
According to the expert, the successful implementation of these tasks requires the coordinated work of state bodies at all levels, from governments to villagers, and all party systems.
my parents are medical professionals.
specialized zon gives great importance to the city of aktobe. the specialized psc has a great importance for aktobe .
in other words, in the framework of the National Plan, we are actually implementing not 5, but more than 20 changes, "said N. Nazarbayev.
we had 5 divisions to deal with judicial matters, which were reduced to three. we had five units of all judicial issues , which are reduced to three .
for example, the country actively participated in a peacekeeping mission in Iraq, assisted Afghanistan and participated in solving the problem around the Iranian nuclear program.
but in the amount of 1% of the annual income of subsoil users will be covered by research, "he explained.
The 25th anniversary of the country's independence is one of the most important events in the history of multinational Kazakhstan! the 25th anniversary of independence of our country is a great event in the life of the whole multinational kazakhstan !
The project provides for the construction of a production complex for the extraction of lime of 1 grade to meet the needs of enterprises in the metallurgical, chemical and food industries.
1) ensure the introduction of legislative amendments aimed at the implementation of paragraph 1 of this decree;
I think that we will not only limit ourselves to this project, but also work together and further.
it is planned to build a meat processing plant with a total annual capacity of 17 thousand tons, feedlots for 50 thousand heads and 1000 heads.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the memorandum is to create the basis for cooperation between the parties in the field of the study and use of outer space for peaceful purposes, to encourage and organize the exchange of information and experience, to facilitate the exchange of personnel, etc.
Kazakhstan with its geographical location, resources and potential can make a significant contribution to achieving this goal, "said the ex-president of Poland.
According to the director of the company Ilgara Melikova, there are also good moments of devaluation.
The theme of EXPO-2017 "energy of the future" is timely and important.
The volume of investments in fixed assets increased by 18.8% compared to 2014 and amounted to KZT410.8 bn.
According to the President of the World Club of Commissioners Expo, through the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, the whole world will recognize the new Kazakhstani.
it is necessary to pay special attention to this issue and devote time, the Ministry of Health and Potential Development needs to carry out this work, "he said.
this is the provision of legislation, raw materials, improvement of tax and customs, as well as other issues.
in my opinion, this is their work, "he said."
16 of them additionally work with the population, 22 provide advisory services, "said N. Abdibekov.
according to him, we must support the decision of the president.
Active and objective coverage of the election campaign in Baku will contribute to obtaining complete and reliable information about the programs, goals and tasks of voters and the activities of political parties, "he said.
The program of the ballet gala of the capital included the best productions of the theater, where domestic and foreign choreographers performed.
all new trends and new directions of Kazakhstan's economy development will be presented there, "Y. Dossayev said.
the number of self-employed in the region decreased from 19.7 thousand to 15.2 thousand people, their share in the total number of employees was only 5%.	the number of self-employed fell from 20 thousand to 15 thousand people , and their share in the total number of the employed population was only 5 % ,  aydarbayev said .
we agreed that in the fall, during my visit to Tokyo, a special plan will be adopted to develop our cooperation in various sectors of the economy.
German experts in their comments noted the growth of international authority of Kazakhstan and the importance of external initiatives of our country to solve global problems of humanity.
According to him, at present our republic occupies the 50th place in the world ranking for the development of the digital economy.
they combine "holiday products" in their cooperatives and produce dairy products at a good price.
On the agenda in the Ural regional center, issues of development of cross-border and interregional cooperation, as well as strengthening trade, economic and cultural-humanitarian ties, were considered.
In addition, the regional budget and sponsors built 31 sports grounds (14 in the city of Taraz, 17 in the districts), "said G. Kainarbekov.
As part of the 2020 Regional Development Program, a square meter of apartments will be provided to the population through the housing construction savings bank of Kazakhstan for 150 thousand tenge, "said Deputy Chairman of the Board of Shymkent Akk JSC.
Within the framework of the Employment Roadmap 2020, 3536.4 million tenge was allocated in three areas, 1733.7 million tenge was spent on the results of the year.
- Today many states face great difficulties in the economy.
African foreign ministers and heads of international organizations took part in the work of the specialevent.
the parties discussed the deepening of multifaceted cooperation in a new format through the establishment of an intergovernmental commission. the sides discussed the issues of multifaceted cooperation and the creation of the intergovernmental commission .
thirdly, there is political socialization and mobilization of citizens, "he said.
The first social store was opened in March 2016 in the nur aktobe microdistrict.
what is more for the state and its economy?
including Kazakhstan.
I am sure that your activities will be aimed at strengthening trust and mutual understanding, maximizing the potential of bilateral cooperation, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
train doctors began their experimental work with the central hospital of obstetrics.
our exhibition will be created in three areas: green technologies, clean energy and water purification technologies.
Recall that this year new specialties were introduced that opened up the possibility of training cadets.
The volume of industrial production for the 1 quarter of 2016 year amounted to KZT 3939.3 million, the gross volume of agricultural output amounted to KZT 274.8 million.
Our company is a modern and innovative plant that meets the requirements of environmental safety. our company is innovative and modern , which meets the highest requirements of the environmental safety .
we against terrorism are not the responsibility of individual states and groups, it is the business of the entire world community.
together with business, we must implement digital technologies in all areas.
North Kazakhstan flour is the best raw material.
it will lead to economic social, social, cultural development of the state ".
In addition, the 50th anniversary of the largest international organization of the Development Programme, dedicated to a separate session of the Aefa, is a unique event this year.
Recall that the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in the capital will be one of the key projects in Kazakhstan.
Unfortunately, national institutions and international agreements, guidelines for peace and cooperation have proved ineffective.
Today, awards are awarded to members of the Writers' Union of Kazakhstan region for creative achievements in order to provide state support. in general , the scholarships are awarded in order to provide the state support to the regional members of writers ' union of kazakhstan for your creative successes and achievements .
Timur zhaksylykov noted that the European Union is one of the most important trade and investment partnerships of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The center is equipped with more than 20 types of "green" technologies: pyrolysis heating, solar ponelli, collector, wells and pumps, LED and phytodiode lighting, sensor crane, energy saving window, etc.
According to him, this will provide a significant saving of the budget allocated for the election campaign, which is 4.8 billion tenge.
If in 2014 sugar beets were sown on an area of ​ ​ 1.2 thousand hectares, then last year its area amounted to 4,020 hectares. last year 's sugar beet area reached 4020 hectares , in 2014 - only 1.2 thousand hectares .
we are ready to develop joint companies.
We propose a constitutional law "On Amendments and Additions to the Constitutional Law" On State Symbols, "the document was developed by the National Modernization Commission in accordance with the instructions of the head of state in the National Plan.
they contribute to the popularization of Kazakhstan's status in the world.
As the contribution of our state to the 70th anniversary, we can mention the organization of a world anti-crisis conference, the Astana economic forum, the anti-nuclear movement, the concept of adopting a world anti-crisis project, the global energy and environmental strategy, the green bridge partnership program and other global initiatives.
we use special meals, which are prepared at domestic enterprises.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed hope that the parties will use all possible measures so as not to aggravate the situation.
in the context of the global economic crisis, the work of parliament will contribute to the development of the domestic economy as a new competitive vector. " a. kusainova.
according to the main parameters of the budget, revenues increased by 7 trillion 364 billion tenge or 424.9 billion tenge compared to the approved budget. the forecast of revenues ( excluding revenue transfers ) are estimated at 3 365.3 billion tenge or 300 billion tenge below of the previously approved amount .
In 2015, 1300 people received highly specialized assistance without leaving the region, and 340 people received heart surgery, he said.
the capital is decorated with installations of "frosty patterns," "New Year's hours," various floral chains and toys, as well as art trees.
Together with the global company alpauyt alstom fransuz, direct investment and new technologies in transport engineering were attracted. close cooperation with the world transport engineering leader provided foreign direct investment , and the most advanced technologies , the creation of conditions for new production , " - said a. mamin .
this work is the result of the long work of the President of Kazakhstan, the National Center for Integrated Processing of Mineral Raw Materials of the Republic of Kazakhstan, its lead processing institutes. this work is the result of a long collaboration of the national center on complex processing of mineral resources , its institutions , devoted to the new technologies of study of lead and gold .
Head of State A.D. Thanks to the resolution and tumors of Nazarbayev, a trip to space was made as part of the fifth scientific project of Kazakh scientists and students of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi, "he said.
the largest shareholders are China, India, Russia.
Currently, a joint development plan is being implemented by two Aktobe entrepreneurs, the project administrator in the Czech Republic and Slovakia in Kazakhstan and Central Asia, Anton Kafstein, said.
that is, the national bank replenished the gold and foreign exchange reserves by buying currency, "he said.
To further accelerate the development of PPPs within the framework of the anti-crisis plan of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an indicator of the implementation of at least 5 projects per year has been added to regional development programs, the First Vice Minister said.
a special training film "On voting procedures on election day" was developed for precinct election commissions, which was sent to the territorial, district and precinct election commissions of the country.
Since gaining independence, Kazakhstan has become a way of progressive transformation of the state from the political and economic sphere and has achieved notable successes. since independence kazakhstan has started the path of the progressive transformation in the political and economic spheres .
Kazakhstan became the first country of the former Soviet Union to take responsibility for organizing such an exhibition as Expo-2017. "
at the same time, for example, state support tools provided by Kazagro Corporation are inaccessible to almost half of all agricultural producers.
Deputy Director for International Affairs of the Areg Mikaelians spoke about international projects in which scientists of the observatory participate.
Over the years of independence, conditions have been created for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, a middle-class category has appeared, representatives of SMEs today contribute to the development of the country, "the deputy said.
this is the best indicator of Kazakhstan to participate in the ranking.
here is not only Saudi Arabia, it is Iran, Turkey and China. it is not only saudi arabia ; it is iran , turkey , and china .
The interlocutors outlined a constructive dialogue on the development of friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Latvia.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to increase the volume of processing of agricultural products. president nursultan nazarbayev gave instructions to increase the volume of agricultural products .
there the state not only falls along ethnic lines, but also falls along a worldview position, "he said.
The Ambassador noted that N. Nazarbayev's initiative defines the main approach to the creation of a modern, effective and prosperous state.
The theme of Expo 2017 is based on the capacities of the future and opens up new directions and partnerships in this area, "he said.
The head of state noted that all state expenses for the construction of the capital are fully compensated.
today's crisis world situation affects not only Kazakhstan, but the whole world, "- said R. Sarpekov.
following the meeting, the Ecu and its institutions agreed to strengthen traditionally active cooperation.
Within the second five-year plan, 869 projects worth 20 billion tenge and more than 115 thousand jobs were included in the industrialization map. Within the second five-year industrialization plan is planned to implement 115 projects with an investment of 869 billion tenge.
The Museum of the First President also opened the recreation room of Nursultan Nazarbayev, where he played chess, dombra.
And most importantly, thanks to the new approach, we will be able to revive new power and become a prosperous state, "he said.
Look around you how many buildings, parks, restaurants we saw today.
The number of participants in the Employment Roadmap 2020 program amounted to 3,791 people, including 2,387 unemployed and 1,404 self-employed.
The President of Kazakhstan also held consultations with the chairmen of both houses of parliament and the Prime Minister.
there are "inactive" terrorists among refugees and migrants, but terrorists cannot be seen in each of them, "he said.
During the meeting on the basis of the white training center "ktzh," diesel locomotive drivers discussed the development of a joint training program.
the implementation of this investment project fulfills an important state task for the import of poultry meat.
Becoming the official dog partner of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 is a great honor for the "transtelecom."
Kazakhstan continues to develop the space industry.
As part of an official visit to Washington, Secretary of State Abdykalikova took part in the festive evening "Nauryz Meirama" with the participation of representatives of the White House, State Department, Congress, business elite, diplomatic corps and public circles.
Kazakhstan is on the verge of qualitatively new reforms and should not only ensure the economic development of Kazakhstan, but also form a new culture of worldview of citizens. kazakhstan is on the eve of new reforms , which should provide not only the economic development , but also a completely new sense of global consciousness .
only kha members take part in the elections. "
At the same time, the diplomat noted that he supports the holding and work of the "charity caravan."
According to the Directorate for preparation of the 28th World Winter Universiade, the operational budget of the event was halved - to 17 billion tenge.
we have held a number of negotiations, more nodes can be made. we have had a number of conversations , following the results of which we can make a lot of conclusions .
This highway is an indicator of the real implementation of the program of Kazakhstan and China "Nұrly zhol" and "Economic belt of the Silk Road."
According to the chairman of the board of directors, the association was created on the initiative of representatives of European business in Kazakhstan, at present it unites more than 130 companies.
The session was also attended by the President of the Republic of Armenia, the President of the Republic of Belarus. Lukashenko, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic a.atambayev., The President of the Russian Federation Vladimir and the President of the Republic of Tajikistan.
It is worth noting that, according to the organizers, five million visitors to the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition are expected.
in the freedom district, the Nursultan Nazarbayev Education Fund will build children's preschools with 140 seats, aksaulet with 180 seats in the Auez district, and platan with 320 seats in the Alatau district.
As the Vice Minister noted, "this service is available only in special PSCs."
He noted that during this period work is underway to create an industrial zone "kairat" in the Talgar district and "kazybek bi" in the Zhambyl district.
# I am menelising, # why the Mangistau, South Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan regions and the city of Almaty joined the telemost.
contacts between the two countries are developing in all spheres and will develop dynamically in the future, "said the Baku ambassador to Kazakhstan.
we see the development of our Kazakhstan mainly in the development of private investment, "said A. Issekeshev.
the article also states that as the most stable country in Central Asia for the second year in a row, it remains stable, even in a state of economic crisis.
Today, on behalf of the Minister of Culture and Sports, we present diplomas, thanks and gifts, "said K.Ualiev.
Including thanks to the support of the Development Foundation, "said I. Belyaev.
Hungary is the second European country to open a consulate in the Aktobe region.
the condition of patients is assessed as stable, they are taken under control by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan.
The head of state also congratulated m.altynbayev on his 70th birthday and awarded him the Order of Barys of the 1st degree on the eve of Independence Day.
the main goal is to create a database, study the interaction of Turkic languages ​ ​ in the new Kazakhstan.
if there are no literate, educated, strong, healthy people in the state, then it cannot develop. there is no country that can develop without literate , educated , healthy , enterprising people .
over the past two years, fish exports have grown by 45%, including to the EU countries - by 2 times.
Practical issues of further development of cooperation were discussed with the UN senior representatives.
According to the Ministry of Justice, 7 political parties are registered in Kazakhstan today.
At the end of the year, we will transfer the pavilions to international participants in order for them to install and fill everything necessary, "said E. Shormanov.
To date, within the framework of this program, new sports facilities have been built in the region in order to develop sports.
During a two-day working visit, Kostanay entrepreneurs visited the Layshev heat processing plant of Poultry Industry Bely Barys JSC, and the Ford Sollers automobile plant.
we see the destabilization of all markets, we see an end to the economic growth of strong powers, an increase in the political situation.
From 3 courses in universities it is planned to teach 30% of professional disciplines in English, "he said.
The book glorifies outstanding personalities in more than 10 countries of the world.
the report presents information on the development of integration projects in the customs union, a unique economic space and the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In addition, 151.6 projects worth 6 billion tenge are being built here with the possibility of creating about 13 thousand new jobs.
The purpose of the visit was to continue deepening trade and economic relations with the regions of the country, attracting Czech business, technology and investment in Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
in the capital, clean Thursday events should be regularly held with the active participation of the public and business, raids with the environmental police.
He also noted that the "expo" will give a new impetus to the development of bilateral relations.
Also, the participants and guests were shown the performances of the Zhetysu aerobatic group on the Su-27, the leader of the group was colonel timur lobster, the presenter was colonel nurlan urazov and arsylan galimov, the captain of the makadiyev channel.
he familiarized the participants with the transport and logistics opportunity of Kazakhstan along the transcontinental corridors.
N.Nazarbayev and A.Lukashenko discussed topical issues on the international agenda and the main steps to ensure global security.
the main driver of trade in our region is the markets of China, Southeast Asia and the Persian Gulf. the main driver of trade is china 's markets , south-east asia and the gulf countries .
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan used effective tactics in the new global economic period.
Last year Kazakhstan and China cooperation reached a qualitatively new level. last year , our cooperation has reached a new level .
We will also try to work in the markets of Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia and Mongolia, "the akim said.
he tells about the history and authors of state symbols. "
here a rapidly and effectively modernized country, the first of the third countries.
control over the implementation of this decree shall be entrusted to the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We also note that according to the concept approved by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the celebration of the 25th anniversary of independence, the Day of State Symbols of Kazakhstan is celebrated on June 4 and is an important socio-political event of the thematic month "season-state symbols."
In 2016-2017, a new wave of global financial and economic crisis is coming.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Iad Madani also discussed the main issues of the international agenda, considered the possibility of participation of member states of the organization in eliminating Islamophobia and countering the phenomena of terrorism around the world.
rural and ecological tourism of East Kazakhstan region: opportunities and development prospects.
- Chairman of the Board of Directors of the "well cake" of the Kostanay region of the Khadzhimurat Llans;
"Kazakhstan - 2021. unit. stability. creation, "the party list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of parliament was approved, changes were made to the composition of the party's political council.
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee on the Development of Languages ​ ​ and Socio-Political Work of Kazakhstan joyfully noted the special importance of the interaction of central and local executive bodies in preserving and strengthening interethnic and interreligious harmony in Kazakhstan.
The electoral program "Nұr Otan" set new tasks to strengthen political stability, harmony and unity of the country, and so on.
health, education, culture and sport are also being developed.
In 2011-2015, as part of the housing and communal services modernization program, 34 houses and 15 elevators were repaired in the district, and in 2015 - 7 houses.
In general, ratification of the convention does not contradict the constitutional laws of Kazakhstan and does not incur additional budgetary expenses when ratifying, "said Vice Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan Elmira Asimova.
Compared to 2013, the growth was 85%.
this group included representatives of local executive bodies, employers, state bodies.
During the meeting, issues of holding early parliamentary elections were discussed.
In accordance with article 87 of the constitutional law "On Elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and article 10 of the law "On the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan," candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan elected by the assembly were nominated.
every ethnic group of Kazakhstan is a common good for all. each ethnic group in kazakhstan is our common heritage .
presentations were made by First Deputy Prosecutor General Johan Merkel, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Rashid Dzhakupov, the leadership of the regional court, the prosecutor's office, and the Department of Internal Affairs of the East Kazakhstan region.
National Social Democratic Party - 1.18%
tell the story of this holiday.
1,264 tax inspections were carried out, periodic studies were carried out for 1,760 taxpayers.
in the choice of the fifth subject, physics takes first place, biology takes second place.
We are glad that Almaty has sports facilities of high international level in snow and ice sports, "he said.
on the one hand, in order to stimulate economic growth, it is necessary to systematically deploy labor resources within the country, including returning compatriots and flows of highly qualified foreign specialists.
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev set the task for young scientists and students to create the necessary conditions for the implementation of their ideas and the introduction of new developments, instructed the Minister of Education and Science e. Sagadiyev.
Congratulations to all Russians and all residents of the planet! "- concluded the representative of Roscosmos.
In this regard, we annually organize such an exhibition in order to provide our mining producers with new products, ensure labor safety at work, "said Minister of Health and Social Development Tamara Duissenova.
in my speech I am. Mladek noted the economic relations between the countries, the mutual interest of Prague and the capital in the qualitative and quantitative expansion of the entire spectrum of bilateral cooperation, "the report said.
firstly, the law provides for the creation of separate institutions for state and legal entities for exposition for state sivoles.	to this end , the constitutional law  on state symbols of the republic of kazakhstan " introduced a number of specific changes and additions .
reforming the public service is entering a decisive stage in the re-certification of administrative public servants, "the head of state said.
The draft provides for the approval of changes in the new version.
The health care, rights and freedoms of foreign nationals shall be exercised in accordance with the national legislation of the host country.
At the exhibition of investment projects in Aktobe region, participants of the event will present large investment projects in the field of food, mining, chemical industry, metallurgy and hospitality.
today the campaign stage will end, tomorrow is the "day of silence."
In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Indonesia, the parties discussed the state and prospects of cooperation between the two countries in the spectrum of cooperation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the fund should reach a qualitatively new level in its activities.
now I have my own home, and it will give me confidence in the future. "
Our main goal is to create a society of universal labor by 2050. "he said.
however, in today's economic environment, we must not halt growth.
in the Zhambyl region - 19.3%, in the Karaganda region - 18.78%, in the Kostanay region - 24.85%, in the Kyzylorda region - 19.83%, in the Mangistau region - 15.23%, in the South Kazakhstan region - 12.86%, in the Pavlodar region - 18.97%, in the North Kazakhstan region - 23.85%.
The forum will be attended by parliamentarians, representatives of world and traditional religions, as well as the expert community.
In accordance with the roadmap, there are issues of updating the content of higher and postgraduate education, training and changing the educational and methodological component, "said G. Nbenov.
if you do not have time in April, then you can submit the document in September, "said Mr. Nygymetov.
the development of the tourism industry in accordance with the appointed cluster will ensure diversification of the economy, achievement of national goals and will contribute to improving the well-being of the population of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "he said.
secondly, vertical measures will be carried out simultaneously, "he said.
The draft code was agreed with the judicial community and approved at a meeting of the international council at the Supreme Court.
- who works in the shop?
the state will do everything to make our children grow up happy. the state makes every effort to create conditions for our children to grow up happy .
Methods and preliminary budget measures were discussed in the Committee on Economic Policy. as for the budget , we discussed the trends and preliminary options at a meeting of the committee on economic policy .
the value of the property subject to legalization at the request amounted to 71,978, 5 million tenge.
- Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of the Taraz Metallurgical Plant,
the document is aimed at improving legal regulation in the field of international air transport, identifying and eliminating obstacles in their implementation, the department said.
Representatives of state bodies, scientific and public organizations took part in the work of the competition commission.
work will be completed around the middle of the year.
I consider it necessary to approve the project for inclusion in the entrepreneurship support card, "said Erik Sultanov.
We plan to open a service platform in Astana, "said Ushakov.
we are trying to continue the policy that has developed within our presidency. as part of our presidency , we will try to continue the policy of all-round development of the sco .
As part of the country's new resource base, in December last year, 30 plots of land were sold through an optimized approach through an auction. as part of creating of a new resource base , in december last year , the country simplified the method for auction and sold 30 plots .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions to the heads of interested state bodies, commanders of special forces units.
During the conversation with the head of the Mexican state, the Kazakh diplomat discussed the prospects for the further development of bilateral relations, noted the importance of expanding the legal framework, developing tourism potential, increasing trade and economic cooperation and including Kazakhstan in the system of electronic visas of Mexico.
the monument to an eternal stone ("eternal stone") symbolizes unity of our people, the great Turkic governor established this monument, and for us it is pride.
K. Ospanova noted that the party "Nұr Otan" has the main goals.
they are winners who speak the state language. " TV Bei.
together we build cities and villages, develop the industry, build roads, build families, raise children.
The head of state examined the building and talked with students living in it, according to the Impulse-2050 program.
Since June 10, we have been selling tickets worldwide www.tickets.expo2017astana.com. started the site. from the 10th of june , we launched the ticket sale at the official site www.tickets.expo2017astana.com.
As A.Rakhmatullin noted, "Kazakhstan works on infrastructure in Afghanistan and makes it possible for African students to receive education.
This project was included in the regional industrialization map as part of the idmb program.
We remind that holding the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital is one of the largest events in Kazakhstan.
summing up, you can compare the creation of an international financial center with a marathon, but not compare with a sprint. in conclusion , i would like to emphasize that the creation of an international financial center can be compared to a marathon , not a sprint .
this will encourage the population to overcome difficulties and achieve success in socio-economic development, "the head of state said in an address.
that is, the procedure for appointing judges is becoming more complicated, new, more stringent criteria for selecting judges are being put forward, "said the head of the Yesilsky district court of Astana.
The head of state noted the unprecedented support of the Nur Otan party in the elections, so it is necessary to justify such high confidence.
in addition, in accordance with the current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, amendments have been made to the draft law and legal equipment.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, work is underway to increase the area of ​ ​ irrigated areas.
on the prospects for the development of caschrome enterprises in the region and on the conclusion of a memorandum on social responsibility next year.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the state and prospects of cooperation.
During the conversation with the governor of the region, issues of cross-border cooperation, cooperation of the relevant state bodies on participation in the "expo-2017," attracting companies operating in the field of alternative energy and tourism to the region were discussed.
As a rule, members of the council will contribute to the development of tolerance and national unity in Kazakh society, together with the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, develop unified approaches to achieve the goals and objectives set by the head of state.
Do you agree with this opinion?
According to the ambassador, Nazarbayev is a very special politician.
In particular, more than 80 laws have been adopted as part of the "100 Concrete Steps" reforms.
they will allow Kazakhstan to become a truly developed economy.
according to him, an agreement was signed between Kazakhstan and the Islamic Development Bank.
he organized an exhibition of investment projects of Aktobe region in the fields of industry and activity.
they invest their own budget funds in this, "said E. Zhalmukhanov.
we hope that international financial organizations and large businessmen will take part in Kazakhstan, who have made sure that you can work here.
Currently, the complex is implementing a scientific and technical program, within the framework of which physical and technical diagnostics have been corrected, "said the head of the city.
in this collection there is only part of the products of the Kazakh Tenge Palace of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the banknote factory.
its main production assets (elevators, production buildings, networks for the production of finished products) are located in Kazakhstan, as well as in the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Kh.rukhani exchanged views on topical issues of regional and international security.
To increase the level of training for projects of the state program of industrial and innovative development (miidb).
According to him, the program was adopted to implement 5 institutional reforms "100 concrete steps."
I am sure that the opening of a regional testing center is a very correct step, "said the deputy akim of the region.
Glory Square is located in the Victory Park.
the new road will solve many problems in the city. the new road will allow solving a number of problems of the city .
in the message of the President of Kazakhstan, I asked several questions familiar to me. in president 's address to the nation i heared a few important things .
I have been participating in the Eurasian media forum since its inception. i take part in the eurasian media forum from the early days of its foundation .
Thus, as part of a joint project in the kenderl, it is planned to build four- and five-star hotels, a water park, a water park and a cottage.
B. Amreev told the head of the congregation that President Nursultan Nazarbayev supports Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018.
the deputy akim of the city of Almaty Arman kyrykbayev, the president of the Kazakhstan association of support and development of pharmaceutical activity a marine of a durmanov, the President of Pharmaceutical Medical Industry of Kazakhstan association Serik of sultans, the president of the international association of producers of pharmaceutical products in the Republic of Kazakhstan Vyacheslav Lokshin, management of Association of distrubiter of pharmaceutical productions of the Republic of Kazakhstan gunko and a turkey the Chairman of Association of pharmaceutical producers "to incha pharma" signed sartkh of som.
The development of cooperation between our parties after the conclusion of this memorandum provides for implementation in the following areas: tax and customs legislation; modernization of tax and customs business processes; intelligent data analysis and development of information systems; Strengthening of scientific and educational relations and expansion of cooperation between the two organizations in the framework of joint projects; Exchange of innovations and skilled workers.
In turn, the basis for strengthening national unity is bilateral cooperation between the legislative branch and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The Act on Amendments and Additions to Certain Legislative Acts on Employment of the Republic of Kazakhstan aimed at bringing legislation into line with the newly adopted Act on Employment of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
During the working visit, the Kazakh delegation headed by Governor of East Kazakhstan region Danial Akhmedov held talks with Deputy Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic Oleg Pankratov and Deputy Prime Minister of Tajikistan.
Once again, I am grateful to this country, because the head of state is always looking only for peaceful ways, "said Sh. Karnauh.
students got the opportunity to get a high-quality education in the countries of the world, "said A. Bozhakov.
he noted that many countries, including political and frivolous ones, faced this problem.
D.Nazarbayeva noted that small funds are not allocated for the social sphere.
The State supports and encourages trade union activities as a strategic partner in improving working conditions. the state supports and stimulates the activity of the labour unions as a strategic partner in improving the working conditions .
this suggests that the head of state pays great attention to human capital. "
Already this year, more than 200 proposals from the regions were received for consideration at the central level.
The project supported the strengthening of the region and defined its work in accordance with the important priorities of rapid development that the Government of Kazakhstan wants to see. the project has supported the strengthening of the regional focus and focused its work on the key priority areas in which the government of kazakhstan would like to see the rapid progress .
on attracting fuel and foreign investors to the development of the capital's economy.
all the listed funds for life, "the purpose of which is to ensure the access of Kazakhstani children to the modern achievements of world medical science in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, the international bank of pillar cells," the letter says.
in particular, this is humanitarian assistance to the population of the Caspian region, support for the Island Sea region, the revival of the civil service, the transition to a green economy and other projects.
funds were allocated for projects aimed at the production of building gypsum, commercial concrete, wooden building structures and food products.
I hope that representatives of your states will actively participate in the event, "the head of state said.
The head of state emphasized that when allowing construction, it is necessary to insist that there be a kindergarten on the ground floor of houses.
14 projects worth 2073.4 million tenge were implemented under the program of thermal power engineering, including 10 projects worth 1693.0 million tenge from the national budget, 380.4 million tenge from the regional budget.
of course, if early elections are held, this will contribute to the transition of Kazakhstan to a new stage.
today, according to the minister, work is underway with lotta, lactalis, meggle and cremonin companies.
according to him, "this is very important for us."
Recall that from the beginning of the year, athletes of the region took part in world championships and cups, won 4 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze medals, and won 2 silver and 2 bronze medals at the Asian championships.
In this regard, the message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan is a continuation of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
this will certainly increase trade between the two countries.
It is worth noting that Ordabasy Bird LLP has been collaborating with the Canadian company Kadikarm since 2009 on the supply of hybrid converter broyler cross-country eggs and annually transports about 900 thousand eggs from Canada.
As a result, 5.2 thousand people were additionally employed this year.
I have witnessed the speed and strength of Kazakhstan's transformation over time. looking back , i am filled with the pride to witness the strength and speed of transformation of kazakhstan .
therefore, the issue of disarmament determines the future of our generation and our generation, "the head of state said.
In this regard, I would like to thank the senators and employees of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said K. Tokayev.
As the Ambassador of Lithuania noted, many countries are striving to demonstrate their new technologies.
the election is two months away.
because there's a capital nearby.
the capital takes the first place in the republic in guaranteeing loans, in subsidizing - the second place.
Majilismen within the CIS Party Standing Committees: on the experience of local self-government and state structure; on international cooperation and political affairs; agrarian policy, ecology and environmental management; culture, information, tourism and sports.
During the trade mission, Kazakh enterprises held talks with representatives of the Ministry of Health, Economy, Trade and Industry of the Republic of Tatarstan.
signs of stabilization in the world market are still unstable, the annual inflation rate remains high, "said D. Ashev.
As the deputy noted, women of Kazakhstan will receive good money at the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
society is important for future generations, "said E. Bakhmutov.
this year marks 25 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan. this year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence .
In addition, this corresponds to the task set by the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, to create an international financial center in the capital, "said Elena Zhabaeva, deputy chairman of the board of the KDB.
Amg specialists make forecasts for financial contribution to the development of master projects and airport infrastructure.
From this moment, precinct election commissions begin work directly at polling stations.
The main topic in it is devoted to the international Astana financial center.
Today, for the development of the economy of all regions, Kazakhstan, depending on the specifics of each region, has created a map of industrialization and created special economic zones.
particular attention was paid to the preparation of visits by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to China and the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China to Kazakhstan to participate in the upcoming G-20 summit this year.
In the same year, on behalf of RK Atameken, the Business Prize was established.
before the start of construction, Kazakh and Chinese partners built a capsule and intend to work closely.
We believe that the past elections were held openly, reported and fairly, "he said.
involvement of private investors not only in the construction of roads, gas pipelines, hospitals, schools and other facilities, but also in their reconstruction and maintenance.
the parties exchanged views on the organization of administrative activities of foreign affairs agencies, the development of personnel potential, the training of international specialists, the assessment of the effectiveness of foreign institutions, etc., "the statement said.
During the talks, the parties discussed the prospects of cooperation between the two parties on the newly concluded agreements, cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union and the development of an industrial and innovation program in Kazakhstan.
in particular, the creation in the Supreme Court of a specialized panel for the consideration of investment disputes with the participation of large investors, an international council, the expansion of the scope of application of information technologies in judicial work, etc.
the government breaks up if it does not enjoy trust, "said n.nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan works very well in this direction and can serve as an example for other states in this region, "said K. Muttonen.
One of these forums was held with the participation of the heads of Italy, Hungary, Lithuania, Croatia, India, Serbia and other countries.
he also expressed interest in cooperation in the field of energy production.
the rights, duties and powers of observers were also considered.
Also within the framework of the visit, a memorandum of partnership and cooperation was signed between the foundation of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the state museum-monument "St. Isaac's Cathedral."
the proposed changes provide for streamlining the package of competent authorities in the field of consumer protection, covering citizens with an additional legal procedure, increasing the social and responsibility of the entrepreneurial industry, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov.
The Prime Minister noted the readiness of the Netherlands to continue a comprehensive partnership with Kazakhstan.
Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region and Alexander Sad company signed a memorandum of cooperation.
it adapts rapidly to the economic situation.
government agencies have tasks, we consider them as part of the construction of infrastructure, "the director of the program management department told Kommersant.
Nursultan Nazarbayev makes a significant contribution to the development of the space industry in the country.
at today's international conference, the presidential aide is the Secretary of the Security Union of Kazakhstan nurlan Yermekbayev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the meeting, R. Zhoshybayev informed about the preparation of the upcoming exhibition on the topic "energy of the future."
In addition, during the meeting, opportunities for further intensification of work to ensure wide and significant participation of foreign countries in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" were discussed.
this will never allow waiting, harvesting on time, without asking anyone for equipment, "said B. Rakhimbekov.
The current seminar is the third meeting of representatives of the two countries.
examination of technical, economic and financial and economic foundations of budget investment projects.
He further noted that the new development-micro program is still being implemented under the working name.
different people come here with different opinions, different political views. people of different beliefs , political views come here from different countries .
Opening the meeting, First Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Johan Merkel noted the dynamic and progressive development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union in the legal sphere.
this is our vast and successful experience in overcoming economic difficulties.
Within the framework of EXPO-2017, a world congress of engineers and scientists will be held. as part of the expo-2017 , the world congress of engineers and scientists will be held .
Also, as part of the event, a special session will be held on the topic: "Silk Strategy: A New China in a New World."
In January-March 2016, service and procurement centers produced products and provided services in the amount of 1,41497.0 thousand tenge.
this document will be sent to the heads of parliaments of all CIS countries.
the delegation consists of 9 people - two employees of the Shu, 3 representatives of Russia, 1 representative from Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, China. "
by postponing the election until the end of the year, we can remain in a fluid crisis. having postponed the elections , we risk running out of time in the midst of the crisis .
with the opening of a new equipped laboratory, as well as the training of institute employees in the laboratory of corelaboratories, the national company Kazneft led to mutual understanding between white and chevron oil and gas incas, "the report said.
According to monitoring data, from the very beginning the actions were carried out: "1,432 information material on the activities of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan, 1,156 material on the activities of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan, 1,261 material on the activities of the kdp" white road "1,114 materials on the activities of the party"Unity, "1144 material on the activities of the national Social Democratic Party," "1,133 material on the activities of the HDSP," said M.Sarsembayev.
and in the fund "Development" the entrepreneur was offered the advantages of subsidizing the interest rate under the single program "Business Roadmap 2020."
We have secured our independence with a high international profile and an effective national security system.
The Embassy voiced the priorities of Kazakhstan's statement for 2017-2018 to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, thanked Spain for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan.
Women's economic opportunities are being enhanced. the opportunities for women are created .
Following the visit, a press conference of the Expo-2017 Commissioner was organized for representatives of the gardens of the Astrakhan region.
visas for these citizens and their families are issued in accordance with the term of the work permit.
we need deeper reform of public and corporate management, financial and fiscal sectors.
we are conducting a large-scale restructuring of all state, public, private institutions, based on the principles of a society of universal labor, high social responsibility, targeted assistance to the poor. " Nazarbayev.
The new model of the fund consists of three areas: commercial services (managing the portfolio of existing assets and the development of new companies, industry), corporate services (finance, human resources management, operational support) and monitoring activities (including the activities of the new complex).
During the training seminar, British experts will share their experience in conducting research work in the field of public service and management, talk about innovative methods of research and modeling, modern methodologies for qualitative and quantitative analysis of sociological surveys, interviews, focus groups, etc.
I think this is the right decision when deputies invite a new session. the proposal of the deputies to convene a new session is probably correct .
We do not single them out, they also have to do and fulfill what healthy children do, "says the senior teacher and abenova of the first season of the Dream camp.
Due to the commissioning of new schools, the capital last year finally eliminated three-shift training.
We express special gratitude for the care of Kazakh artists of the National Museum, "- said Sh. Aidos.
Today, this issue can be resolved thanks to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public-Private Partnership," but this legislation is not enough, it is necessary to amend industry legislation, "said A. Nbetov.
in this regard, our experience of inhumane meetings as neighbors is important.
15,709 diagnostic procedures, 73 outpatient operations were carried out.
indeed, this call worked at a difficult time.
The CEC submits official requests to the Prosecutor General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, "he said.
all farmers are very satisfied, they can buy land, "he said.
109.2 million eggs were produced.
modernization of the silk road will not only increase the potential of the region, but also resume geopolitics in Central Asia, "said the director of the kgzi.
I am very happy for parents and our children, because the burden from school is very heavy and affects the health of children who cannot recover during the day. i am happy for our parents and children , because the school job influenced badly the health of children , and they do not have time to recover for one day .
in our opinion, this is a beautiful platform, a beautiful topic, "he said.
Such a project is being implemented for the first time in the CIS countries. the similar project is realized for the first time in the cis .
That is, he showed the path of financial literacy, business flexibility.
I am sure that the updated meeting will work effectively and contribute to the country's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world, "the expert said.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that during the session of the Collective Security Council issues on the international agenda will be discussed.
According to the Vice Minister, gasification of the regions in 2016-2020 will be carried out at the expense of the national operator.
The head of the region, Danial Akhmetov, in turn, noted that Chinese companies can take part in the construction of such projects as tez-3 and gas sound facilities in Semipalatinsk, as well as the concession project "Construction and commissioning of the ball-maykapshagai railway network."
With the participation of the Deputy Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Talgat Mukhtarov, a memorandum of intent was signed with the German company abeking & rasmussen to supply a missile and artillery ship for the Navy of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to him, the anti-crisis measures proposed by the head of state require legislative support.
different and large countries.
The seminar is attended by civil servants dealing with issues of interethnic and interfaith relations, ethno-politics, representatives of ethno-cultural, religious, youth organizations of Kyzylorda, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan regions and the city of Almaty, employees of higher educational institutions, research institutes and non-governmental organizations.
The commission carefully began work, prepared premises, developed all technical means, "he said.
In accordance with the concept of the plan of events for the anniversary, the library of the first president of the Nұr Otan party and the KHA was entrusted with conducting events of various formats called "rizymas of an independent state."
high business responsibility.
along with hotels, enterprises in the field of catering, services, the status of a partner of the city of Astana recommended by expo-2017 is also provided to hostels, transport companies and passenger transportation services.
we perceive the Hungarian people as a relative. hungarians feel in kazakhstan at home , " official representative of budapest told .
in military units, crews were selected to participate in tours held in Kazakhstan.
the agro-industrial complex occupies a special place in the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state. agriculture has a special place in the realization of the tasks of the head of state .
these countries recognized him as a leader and recognized Kazakhstan as a strong country, "said the executive director of the head of state's library during the opening of the exhibition.
this is an extraordinary and correct decision, "said Kenzhebayev.
According to him, if you agree on the dissolution of the meeting of the President of Kazakhstan, it is important that Kazakhstanis be determined by party.
Including, mainly, work is underway to strengthen innovative technologies to improve the quality and performance of the population, "said the director of the pharma" pharma plus aktau "of the city of aktau.
Therefore, the President of Kazakhstan called on agricultural producers to fully use the opportunities provided by the state, introduce new technologies into production and master international best practices.
issues within the framework of military and military-technical cooperation were discussed at the meeting, prospects for cooperation were determined.
As part of the state program of industrial and innovative development last year, within the framework of a national teleconference with the participation of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, the mining complex of the Eurochem-fertilizer limited liability partnership was launched.
The famous Kazakhstan scientists-local historians, historians, artists and the cultures, businessmen and also representatives of travel agencies, gardening, economic and public authorities took part in a round table.
the global crisis is a new opportunity along with a threat. the global crisis is not only a risk , but also new opportunities .
all criminal offenses in the country are promptly entered into this web resource.
then the lives of each of us will improve. "
In addition, 47 authentic samples, 95 authentic samples and 27 models in the closed pavilion will be placed on the open area.
During the talks, issues of siemensag's participation as a technical partner in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, expansion of its investment activities and the possibility of producing medical equipment in Kazakhstan were discussed.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is multinational and each of the members of kha introduces international ties with its historical genera. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan is multinational and every member includes international contacts .
The parliamentarians informed the guests about the large-scale work carried out in Kazakhstan to optimize the state apparatus and redistribute powers between the authorities of the central and local levels.
thanks to new technologies, the work of doctors is now also significantly simplified.
What is needed, "said the head of state.
if the two parties agree to participate in the discussion, we must organize it. if the two parties wish to participate in the debate , we will be obliged to organize it , " - the head of the cec of rk said .
I know that Kazakhstan celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.
ratified by the parliaments of two states in February this year.
Liberia's main export product is coffee, cocoa and diamonds.
During the study, the Kazakhstani LLP "Emirate" proposed to the regional agricultural center "Druzhino" to create a joint venture (greenhouse complex) in Kazakhstan and announced its readiness to finance this project.
At the same time, the volume of investments in fixed assets of agriculture decreased by 6.36% and amounted to 167.1 billion tenge.
the region borders with four regions of Kazakhstan and three regions of Russia.
according to the plan, a solar power plant will be built in the cities of Shymkent, Turkestan and Kentau.
The Secretary of State thanked the Syrian side for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
According to him, the national plan pays special attention to economic reform and social issues.
the experience of other countries shows that all elections are a great update. the experience in other countries shows that any elections are great modernization .
The head of state noted good relations between the two countries in the conditions of independence.
basterbolat askarbekovich from the post of Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
He introduced the participants to the plan of Sk Pharmacy LLP for 2016-2019.
support from the state and the Baiterek holding, along with the import substitution of these products, will contribute to its export to Lithuania, Russia and Central Asian countries: Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, "said Ruslan Evloev, Deputy General Director of Kazazot LLP.
The German parliament stressed that the main aspects of the work on this path are deep economic cooperation, as well as bilateral Kazakh-German raw materials cooperation and technological partnership and the participation of the German side in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
The Deputy Prime Minister wished success to future specialists, said that working specialists are needed.
Recall that the choir of the capital's opera house received many international awards.
according to him, "the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights to monitor the upcoming elections in our country, the OSCE parliamentary assembly, the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the organization of Islamic cooperation, the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking states, such organizations as the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, representatives of the central election bodies of nineteen foreign states."
I instruct the government to develop a detailed plan for improving the investment climate within three months.
now the state is building the engineering infrastructure of the automobile plant in the amount of several billion tenge. currently the state constructs the engineering infrastructure of the automobile plant worth several billion tenge .
this is a very important and relevant event. "
placing on the territory of Kazakhstan a low-enriched uranium bank is logical and does not apply to any need from the point of view of the peacekeeping policy of the head of state, our people, the preservation of peace everywhere. placement of bank of the low-enriched uranium in the territory of kazakhstan is logical continuation of a peace policy of the head of our state and our people about questions of non-proliferation , questions of a preservation of peace on the earth .
In 2013, we moved to 33rd place.
For all of us, ecology matters.
first of all, I want to note that our manat went into semi-free circulation.
today the time trend is updated. nowadays the updating is a trend of time .
In general, the meeting in Kenya was very successful. idriss.
the unemployment rate was 5.0%.
will head the working group of the darig Nursultan Nazarbayeva, "said the head of government.
- What care for monkeys?
among them are the crisis center for children and women of Ak-runo LLP, the children's health organization "energy," the corporate fund "healthy generation," the preventive sanatorium "beauty."
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also informed about the socio-economic development of the region and the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
from the premiere works, a graduate of the Vienna Conservatory will present the aria of juliet from the opera Montecca and Capulet, performed by an Islamic madina, and the "trousers" of diamond serkebayev for a symphony orchestra.
democratic institutions and offices of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe for Human Rights operate in this format.
Due to the unevenness and poor quality of roads, accidents occur, "he said.
priority areas of cooperation, including combating transnational organized crime, terrorism, extremism, cybercrime, drug trafficking, as well as the exchange of experience and information.
future to provide education organizations with qualified English-speaking specialists within the framework of the Roadmap for the development of trilingual education in Kazakhstan. "
Today, the World Bank program in Kazakhstan focuses on institutional development in the field of education, health, innovation, as well as transport infrastructure and environmental protection.
Therefore, we want to consider your experience in conducting such a large-scale event, "said Ms. Al-Hashemi.
According to the Senate of Kazakhstan, the event was attended by the chairmen of the parliaments of India, Italy, Pakistan, Thailand, vice speakers of 11 countries.
we consider Kazakhstan as a giant state not only of regional, but also of global importance of agriculture. we consider kazakhstan as an agricultural power .
Recall that the Eurasian Patent Institution is an international organization for the consideration of applications for Eurasian patents applied simultaneously in the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan, the Kyrgyz Republic and Turkmenistan.
As a result, we have a high quality of products, "said the director of Aktau Paper Plant LLP.
During the meeting, topical issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of ensuring international security in the framework of countering transnational organized crime, extremism and terrorism, money laundering obtained illegally were also discussed.
the company of the Eurasian group provided mutually beneficial assistance to "reduce the cost" of a special project by 10%.
the state must, for its part, create all the conditions necessary for the army.
Recall that 100 countries are expected to participate in EXPO-2017, including at least 10 Halkon organizations, 10 leading companies in innovative technologies.
To avoid these shortcomings, we always support the work of foreign experts on this project and are ready to invite them to lead this fund, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of the Republic of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan, President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almadbek Atambayev and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin will take part in his work.
President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev in his November message noted that he sees the value of Kazakhstan in people working in our country.
Bulgarian deputies expressed their readiness to expand and deepen inter-parliamentary cooperation, and also wished to take part in the international conference "Religion against Terrorism," which will be held in the capital on May 2016, 31 on the eve of the XV meeting of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
the diplomatic corps was invited to the annual message of the President of Kazakhstan. the diplomatic corps were invited to the annual president 's address .
This event was organized by the "All-Ukrainian Association of Martial Arts" with the support of the administration of the South Kazakhstan region and the committee on sports and physical culture of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
now Kazakhstanis believe in stability. now it is clear that kazakhstan has achieved stability .
invite all interested persons to the working group, "added N. Abdirov.
also among the priority areas for the further development of two national innovation clusters - Nazarbayev University in the capital and the "park of innovative technologies" in Almaty, where an ecosystem will be created that is necessary for innovation for the development of fundamentally new directions for Kazakhstan.
we hope to receive medals in biathlon, cross-country skiing and figure skating.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Health and Social Development, representatives of the Ministries of Health and Social Development, Education and Science, Finance, the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan took part in the event.
we received an answer, we were given specific tasks.
according to the established tradition, on Orthodox Christmas we give a concert. according to the tradition , on the orthodox christmas we give a concert .
the parties considered the issues of further development of the "Lianyungan Kazakh-Chinese joint logistics company" and the creation of the Shui logistics zone in the city of Lianyungan, the development of the Hshso Khorgos.
we must work on effective projects that generate large revenues, "said Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov.
The event was attended by representatives of the Austrian parliament and ministry, heads of diplomatic missions accredited in Vienna, heads of international organizations, honorary consuls of Kazakhstan, members of the Austro-Kazakh community, representatives of the socio-political and business environment, the Kazakh diaspora, as well as Kazakh and Austrian garden journalists.
to increase the level of attracting investment, we create infrastructure and bring it to the level of world standards. in order to increase the investment attractiveness we improve infrastructure and bring it in accordance with international standards .
the visit of my colleague is considered as preparation before the visit of the head of state, "the minister said.
these are pharmaceuticals, the mining and metallurgical complex, chemical production, the production of building materials, "the report said.
world-class conditions have been created for you at this university in your homeland.
over the past year, 794 Egyptians arrived in Almaty, and 8,000 people arrived in Egypt - 10 times more.
we are ready to cooperate and consider the participation of competitive missions, which will help ensure a situation of brightness, transparency, openness in the upcoming elections, increase confidence in the elections by all participants in the electoral process, "he said.
this is a unique point of providing state coordinated support to investors and reducing bureaucratic paperwork.
He noted that measures were being taken by the State to ensure employment.
Now this idea is being implemented, and we will fully work it out, that is, we will talk with school principals, with district, with the Ministry of Finance and imagine when they will be ready, "said the head of the Ministry of Education and Science.
Concerted efforts are needed to restore the economic development of the region. we need to make concerted efforts for the resumption of economic development in the region and more effective implementation of the agenda .
bazarbayev askar ermurzaevich
banking sector, peasant farms, small and medium-sized businesses.
this is a very correct direction, "said N. Nazarbayev.
now we are waiting for the complete "liberation" of the manat.
the project gives priority to the further development of the system of commercialization of research and its introduction into production.
Congratulations to the Kadakhstanians on the holiday. i congratulate the people of kazakhstan on this holiday .
The commission will monitor the work on the Internet resources of state bodies, "he said.
As you know, a summit of the heads of state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization will be held in June. do you know that the summit of heads of state of the shanghai cooperation organization will be held in june .
today it is necessary to increase interstate cooperation in the field of labor migration, strengthen border control, work on the integration of migrants into society and develop effective laws in the field of migration, taking into account international standards, "nurymbet said.
Now we decided to continue this initiative, "he said.
most of them intend to connect their lives with the army and military service.
Recall that tomorrow in the capital there will be an international conference on the topic "Religion against terrorism."
We reviewed the fundamentals of macroeconomic policy, considered the strengthening of institutions, systemic monitoring, the formation of sectoral reforms, regional integration and the fulfillment of qualitative tasks, "said K. Maxim.
According to the calculations of the Institute of Economic Research under the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan, Asia Auto Kazakhstan will increase the annual growth of the republican industry to 11 billion dollars.
issues of cooperation on geological study and construction of a unique geological model of the Caspian basin are the interests of the two countries, "he said.
Ukraine, Syria, Iran, Afghanistan.
the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Lithuania also takes part in the events. Mukhamedzhans.
This year we began to produce yogurt for children from camel milk - this is a very useful product, "said S. Zhakaeva." strategy2050.kz "
What observers observed in Kazakhstan is the great participation of young people in the elections. young people of kazakhstan are really interested in the political processes .
- Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Mangistau Region, Director of Sultan LLP, additional.
The project will attract more than 73 billion investments in the region and create about 1 thousand jobs.
the issues of increasing flights of both sides and mutual settlements between banks of the two countries in foreign currency, simplifying the visa regime were discussed, "said the Amaniyaz Yerzhanov.
The main goal is to attract foreign funds to the country's economy, "the president emphasized.
net profit of the company for four months amounted to 32.6 billion tenge.
To implement state policy, the new parliamentarians need to get a mandate of confidence of the people, "said the Turkish expert.
the parties also discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, including inter-parliamentary ones.
we need specialists who know the process of lawmaking, because parliament is a representative body, "the expert said.
Accession to the WTO obliges the country to work larger than usual, "he said.
Minister of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic Jan Mladek and Ambassador of Kazakhstan Serzhan Abdykarimov and Chairman of the Kazakh-Czech mixed chamber Eugene Tsoi spoke at the opening of the evening.
We received about 30 thousand patients from 12 points of the country, of which more than six thousand children. at 30 stations we have examined more than 12 thousand patients ; more than 6 000 of them are children .
we are currently going through and approving all the trends of the transaction.
all this will stimulate small and medium-sized businesses, increase services and create new jobs, "said B. Baibek.
According to him, in the near future social outlets will open their doors in 12 microdistricts, as well as microdistricts "west - 2" and "future."
for example, international observers saw in their rank the city election commission.
Note that in the period from December 31 to January 1, 233 babies opened bright doors in maternity hospitals.
- Amirenov ryashat babayuly - a mechanic of the section of the "eastern" white "Euro-Asian energy corporation, the city of ekibastuz of Pavlodar region;
the state regulates and finances these conditions through grants, vouchers.	the state takes over the construction of roads and communications in the regions with potential for growth and the flow of tourists ,  - said deputy prime minister of the republic of kazakhstan .
According to him, Zhambyl region cooperates with the largest manufacturer of electrical equipment in the world, tbea (annual income - about $800 million).
education, employment, culture, finance, public policy, advertising, trade - all this is developing under the influence of the Internet in the 21st century.
The participants of the round table discussed the impact of crisis methods in the world economy on the economies of the two countries.
Within the framework of industrialization, new high-quality places are being opened. new quality workplaces , based on a green economy , are created as part of the industrialization .
independence and sovereignty, freedom are the great value of every people, "the head of state said.
Here we will solve topical issues of the development of the public service and exchange experience in the development of the industry, "he said.
So, since the beginning of the year food products worth 10.2 billion tenge have been processed.
It is expected that in the near future the construction of the facility will begin, which will be built as part of the program for the development of the export potential of cattle meat.
he also spoke about the nuclear security summit that took place earlier this month.
In 2015, 201 people turned to the services of the center.
Alexander Ivanovich, former First Vice Minister of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan, currently President of the Association of Maritime Transport Entrepreneurs, was elected Chairman of the Council.
this, according to experts, stimulates the growth of our country's economy, "he said.
Under the Nұrly zhol program, 13.5 km of heating networks of 4 and 5 connections with a total length of 39.1 km were laid in 2015, "he said.
For this, there are tasks: state programs are working, enterprises are being created.
By the way, among the main indicators included in the situation center are profitability, eva, net profit, production volumes, shipping, the use of chemicals, labor productivity, etc.
cooperation in trade and economic, agricultural, pharmaceutical, as well as infrastructure and transport and logistics spheres.
the danger was great, but all this cost the Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
we discussed topical issues together, "said B. Sagintayev.
The established legal framework promotes cooperation between the armed forces and the defense industry of the two countries.
It is worth noting that the creation of a favorable investment climate will contribute to increasing the investment attractiveness of the country's agricultural sector.
R. Zhoshybayev on behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev handed over the original invitation to participate in EXPO-2017.
based on these positions, we turn to the head of state with the initiative to adopt a decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the early dissolution of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, Kazakhstan has a great opportunity to invest.
Currently, in the framework of cooperation with the republic, the potential of silicon production as a sun has been discussed, "said K. Izbaskanov.
the security of each State is inextricably linked to the security of all other parties. the security of each state - osce member is linked to all others .
As Sulya noted, during the reform of "legal justice," the President of Kazakhstan raised issues that need to be modernized.
we have developed and consistently implemented two anti-crisis plans.
It is planned that the factory will create 15 new jobs with the amount of investment - 250 million US dollars.
As a result of the above works, the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 344.6 billion tenge, having increased by 21.8 billion tenge since last year and increased by 3.5%.
For the next elections to local representative bodies, which will be held on March 20 of this year, 3,335 people will be elected to deputies of maslikhats of all levels, 550 regional, 625 city and 2,160 district people.
we have achieved economic growth that has not occurred in the history of our country.
in this regard, considering the convention to be an effective tool for strengthening the authority of our courts, we propose to ratify this convention. in this regard , considering this convention as an effective tool for strengthening the authority of our courts , we propose to ratify the convention .
this is a ready market in the organization of tire production products in Kazakhstan.
The head of state noted that he headed Egypt in a difficult time.
The head of state noted that the work done over the past period has created a favorable climate for the direct implementation of reforms.
The company intends to export Kazakhstan-made products to Russia, China and Iran.
we appeal to patrons in this regard.
the work of mobilization groups in pilot mode will last until the end of the year.
therefore, we intend to continue our partnership taking into account existing economic interests. "
Taking into account international experience, the construction of all Escpo facilities should be loaded and used for the effective use of the post-continental period. taking into account the international experience , all objects of the expo should be built given their maximum load and effective use after the exhibition .
Also, as part of a working trip to Almaty, the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan visited the national library.
In her speech, the Kazakh delegation appreciated the role of the nuclear security summit and published the results of the IV nuclear security summit in Washington with the participation of the country's leadership.
iv. Five areas of crisis and structural updates
we are now in the maritime zone. we are now in the territory , where a month ago there was the sea .
Reviewing the costs of regional and industrial development programmes.
As the Head of State noted, today in the difficult conditions of the world economy, a meeting is held during which Kazakhstan strengthens the diversification of the economy.
in Kazakhstan, a new political state was legislated to create a future united nation - this is the idea of ​ ​ public harmony and national unity. kazakhstan has introduced the new state policy on formation of the nation of the common future - the idea of public consent and national unity .
Kazakhstan noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries, especially focusing on the potential of deepening economic cooperation.
Hungarian audiences got acquainted with the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 and Nұrly zhol program, the national plan "100 concrete steps."
every year, peacekeepers of the armed forces of Kazakhstan together with representatives of the armed forces of foreign states take part in the exercises of the "steppe eagle," "unwavering brotherhood" and other exercises.
As part of the improvement of the city with the process, sites for "street workout" with the necessary equipment are created.
members of the management council of the international financial center of the capital expressed their vision for the development of the center, as well as announced specific proposals for promoting ahko and its services.
In 2016, we plan to train more than 2 thousand Kazakhstani women in green entrepreneurship, "of which 10 women receive grants, and also offer other women everything to accompany in the state programs of 2020 and 2020," he said.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the city, whose gross regional product reached 4 trillion 560 billion tenge, today ranks first in the country in terms of growth rates.
During the meeting with the participants of the game, akim of the region Yerik Sultanov noted that the project "I am a champion" launched last year at the initiative of the Nur Otan party today has become a large-scale sports movement.
concentration of two leaders in the industry will provide competitive and reliably integrated sources for the nuclear industry.
Of course, we see that Kazakhstan meets global challenges.
all polling stations will be equipped with the main energy sources, telephone lines and the necessary means. all polling stations will be equipped with primary and backup power supplies , a stable telephone and the necessary equipment , " ye.aimagambetov has said .
Kazakhstan joins all decisions to be taken within the framework of the summit.
Development and implementation of the project totaling KZT6,300,000 is scheduled for January-September 2016.
The business project should be competitive: it means that you need to conduct a marketing examination, determine the market need of this enterprise.
In my opinion, ceso is an effective partner of Atameken in many requirements.
The new privatization program, developed by the government in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, covers more than seven thousand state-owned companies.
I am honored that you have gathered to discuss the further development of IVF in this city. it gives me great pleasure to see you here today in astana in order to discuss the important issues of future development of our eurasian economic union .
and how many poultry meat projects.
Of these, $30 million will be allocated for grants for commercialization, $10 million for increasing the potential of scientists, "he said.
K. Shtenets noted the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan and the importance of such forums and the advantages of negotiations for the sustainable development of interregional cooperation.
the theme of the master clock was "the formation of the political image of the country and the improvement of the strategic effectiveness of brand representation."
his Ministry of Culture and Sports, "said the Secretary of State.
they are involved in many sectors of the economy.
verification began in Astana.
Over the past 10 years, trade between Kazakhstan and the eu has increased 13 times, and the volume of European investments in the economy of Kazakhstan - 10 times.
in this case, cruelty and dispute can be overcome only by peaceful and charitable means, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The region also implemented a regional development program for 2011-2015 aimed at the development of sports, including mass sports. the region has implemented the program on the regions development for 2011-2015 , aimed at the development of sports , including the mass sports .
Kazakhstan works to improve the quality of services of the organization.
In addition, I entrust the creation of a government council focused on attracting investors and improving the investment climate to intensify work with investors.
Note that along with preparations for the large-scale competition of the Army International Games-2016, military personnel will train their level of combat training to participate in the international competition "Elbrus Ring-2016."
As a young member of the Kazakh public, I am worried about the fate of Kazakhstan, as well as the future of youth. as a young representative of kazakhstan 's society , i am worried about the fate of kazakhstan , including the fate of the young generation of the country .
this is the way to the future, the way to eternal country.
During the event, the chairman of the public council, Senator B. Aytimova, noted that in the future work will be carried out in three areas: information and image, expert research and the establishment of relations with society and society.
For 2 months of 2015 - more than 27 thousand, of which more than 8 thousand are women.
According to him, an important task of Kazakhstan's further development is institutional reform proposed by the head of state.
all this is beneficial and important to you, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In addition to debts, I think it will be right that direct investments come there, that people will invest in farmers, and they will trust them, and through them they will go to buy land in private property, that is, agricultural production will be an attractive investment, "he said.
we widely represent the industrial segment, services, to the oil and gas and energy, as well as the food industry, "added a. Barcevicius.
in these programs, the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan are disclosed in detail and clearly given, "he said. Selteans.
fish can be bought in Atyrau region, other goods in Aktobe, vegetables in South Kazakhstan region, we held negotiations, "the head of state said.
employment, training and place of residence.
Since the beginning of the implementation of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" in the region, 625 projects have been supported to subsidize the remuneration rate.
- Yesterday the annual message of the President of Kazakhstan was published.
During the visit, the parties established cooperation between Amata Nakorn and the Almaty park of innovative technologies.
all related to infrastructure development.
our goal is to make our country a happy, prosperous country, "he said. Nazarbayev.
the agreement provides for the exchange of experience in the field of information, agglomeration, city economy, construction, public transport, tourism, innovation, health care, environmental improvement and the development of public utilities and other industries.
3) implementation of the international management standard;
this, according to him, corresponds to the instructions of the head of state on the political advancement of women.
It requires educated people. "
100 specific steps. "
Vice Minister considered cooperation with the Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Medicine for international cooperation in the field of educational programs, mutual exchange of students and teachers.
In March, ministry employees will visit Estonia and the UK, where they will get acquainted with the automation of activities, the development of electronic government, and the optimization of state equipment. in march , employees of the ministry will visit estonia and the uk , where they will get acquainted with the experience of these countries in the field of automation services , e-government development , optimization and de-bureaucratization of the state apparatus .
It is necessary to create conditions for effective work to create a serious foundation for these institutions, "said the head of the financial regulator.
the interests of all global players coincide here - from China and Russia and the European Union to India, Iran and Turkey.
At the first stage of the commission's work, 120 documents were adopted at the Eurasian Economic Council and more than 1,600 at the council and board.
Unfortunately, as the President of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan noted, Kazakhstan ranks 43rd in terms of the world gender rating.
non-custodial sentences increased by 2.1 per cent (from 64.4 per cent to 66.5 per cent).
I want to emphasize the coherence of the work of parliament and government.
the new exchange rate of the national currency will contribute to the development of the country's economy.
the sides discussed bilateral trade and economic relations and joint projects.
The Head of Government also noted the importance of intensifying the work on replacing imported construction materials with domestic ones and ensuring the maximum concentration of enterprises in the country, as well as ensuring the quality of construction work.
we are joining forces to do so.
this is a plant for the production of reinforced concrete products of Water Quality LLP and a broiler poultry farm with a capacity of 20 thousand tons in the Tselinograd district, a "Bizhan" meat processing plant engaged in the storage and processing of wheat and oilseeds in the city of Kokshetau, Akmola Wheat LLP, a large brick plant and a wind power plant with a capacity of 140 million eggs in the district and new.
It is important to arouse the interest of the entire region, to make it a center of financial services within the framework of the "economic belt of the silk road."
According to him, Kazakhstan has enough opportunities to learn foreign languages.
we are working with the eidu team to become members of the organization's investment committee. we are working with the oecd team to become a member of its investment committee .
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that it is a powerful economic situation in the country.
The American side was led by the Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia Niche Biswal, the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Protection Tom Raspberry and the Minister of Trade.
The Law "On Amending Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Issues of Social Protection of the Population," developed as part of the implementation of the 84 step of the National Plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms taking into account positive results, was signed by the head of state on October 28, 2015.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this year is marked by the 25th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
more than three thousand market participants - representatives of the government, mining enterprises, service and consulting firms, financial companies - will analyze within two days the possibilities of stability and further development of the mining business.
in general, Kazakhstan managed to carry out very successful economic, social, political reforms for history and regards them in the world as an advanced model of domestic and foreign policy of the state.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan voted for its deputies in parliament. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan has just voted for the parliament deputies .
all sports facilities will be put into operation in September of this year.
during the meeting, the results of the year were discussed.
pauline maria lemos - deputy head of mission (Great Britain and Northern Ireland)
the seminar was attended by renowned international independent experts and consultants.
Representatives of the expert community of Russia, China, Turkey and Germany took part in it.
It is worth noting that the "bipack of auto - Asia auto" is the company that was the first to carry out the car market to enter the Eurasian Union.
In 2015, 51 facilities worth 7 billion 920.9 million tenge are under construction.
funds for these areas are being developed in accordance with the republican budget and the schedule for paying for construction work, "the minister said.
According to the head of the holding, the digital Kazakhstan 2020 program consists of several key areas.
including members and veterans of the people, members of republican and regional ethnocultural organizations, members of parliament, heads of central and executive bodies, political parties, Jewish, religious organizations, university rectors, representatives of diplomatic missions of foreign countries, science.
He noted that the work carried out under the program "Nұrly zhol" and the project "Economic Belt of the Silk Road" on the initiative of the heads of the Republic of Kazakhstan and China Nursultan Nazarbayev is a step towards improving the joint transport and logistics system and increasing trade in the development of transport on the Eurasian continent.
The Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan plays an important role in this.	the residents of west kazakhstan region are also contributing to this .	1,11
80.8 thousand were directed to youth practice, 103.1 thousand were subsidized by the state, 122.9 thousand citizens underwent vocational training, advanced training and retraining.	80.8 thousand people were directed to youth practice , 103.1 thousand - to state-subsidized social jobs , 122.9 thousand people - to vocational training , retraining .	1,11
Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation with Art-Construction.
the civil alliance of Kazakhstan unites the system of the largest non-governmental organizations in the country. the civil alliance of kazakhstan unites the largest network of non-governmental organizations in the country .
I urge all citizens to take part in the upcoming elections, "he said.
The draft Code on the Ethics of Judges takes into account all the requirements for judges on the part of the President of the country, modernity and society. the draft code of ethics of judges will take into account all requirements of the president of the country , modernity and society to the judges .
now there is an economic crisis around the world. now there is a worldwide economic crisis .
As part of the implementation of the program, the water supply of microdistricts has improved, "said B. Baibek.
On November 30 this year, the head of state sent his important message to the people of Kazakhstan. head of state correctly defined the situation that kazakhstan faced with .
We believe that they open up opportunities for the citizens of Eao and receive high-quality, affordable tools, "said the vice minister.
we have achieved a lot.
thanks to unity, our people have preserved huge land territories, achieved independence, and formed a market economy. thanks to the unity our people has kept a vast territory , reached independence , built the market economy .
Russian is 600 million people with historical ties.
In addition, 11 international organizations operate within 112 states to which an invitation was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the site is located 4 km from the Western Europe-Western China international highway and 500 meters from the Trans-Asian railway corridor.
our institute last year received the status of a national institute for energy conservation and energy efficiency.
the program of forced industrial and innovative development adopted in recent years is associated with the preparation of people's economic mechanisms for Kazakhstan to join the world trade organization and the development of socio-economic methods, the expert said.
creates all conditions for a successful life.
yesterday I took part in the 17th extraordinary congress of the Nұr Otan party.
the Polish side was presented with tools for the development of agricultural business and mechanisms of state support, the capabilities of the EAEU.
Kazakhstan became the first in Eurasian territory and lasted until the end and only in September 215 sent the national currency for free navigation. in the eurasian region , perhaps , kazakhstan is the only state which stayed to the last , having left its national currency to float freely only in september 2015 .
In order to develop mja projects and attract domestic and foreign investments, the mja Development Company was created.
"Caravan of Mercy" is dedicated to the Day of the First President, "said N.Shana.
already in a new era of independence, we were able to unite ethnic groups of all nationalities, "the head of state said.
the project includes the development of the "shaglo-bucket" gas field, the construction of a gas-piston power plant, a tank and ammonia utilization plant, leaving the exhaust gas, and a granulating tower.
this is right, life requires new literate people.
I consider this case heroic, worthy of imitation.
Active dialogues were also held at the Baikonur complex.
I congratulate the Orthodox Christians of the country and all Kazakhstanis on Christmas!
entrepreneurs will receive advice, information on how to develop a project. businessmen often ask how to develop a ppp project , the costs and the law peculiarities .
we announced this contest a month ago. we announced this contest a month ago .
mining, metallurgy, the food and chemical industries, mechanical engineering, logistics and electronics are developed there.
The memorandum on gas was concluded and signed at the Ontustic invest 2016 international forum between the management of renerco industries LLP and the management company of industrial zones South.
The Ministry of Energy is discussing with the community the possibility of introducing an auction mechanism in order to further develop the country, he said.
The third section is a presentation of successful experience in implementing structural and institutional reforms in Kazakhstan and improving the business climate in attracting investments in other countries, "he said.
Vladimir Tsyun reported to Nursultan Nazarbayev on the implementation of various projects that contribute to the further development of the construction and oil and gas industry of the republic.
bread and milk, sausage, clothes necessary for everyday life, we buy only for tenge. daily bread we buy for the tenge , we buy sausage , clothes for the tenge too .
thus, in the first year it can be said that the council was armed.
The plans include the involvement of doctors, psychologists, lawyers, musicians, assistance in a difficult period, "he said.
the head of the health commission was appointed chairman of the Eurasian Medical Association and president of the collegial council corporate fund.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that at this stage "royal datch shell pls" is one of the largest investors in the oil and gas industry of our country.
In addition, the fund is a tool for attracting new technologies and best practices, "said the chairman of the board.
The center provides beginners and current entrepreneurs with "one-stop shop" services to open and conduct small and medium-sized businesses.
This situation will help establish a sustainable multidisciplinary policy, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The international seminar on space days was organized for the third time and has become a tradition.
I held a number of meetings, talked with experts, politicians, heads of business and financial organizations.
The international system Rusatom has approved a memorandum of cooperation with the organizing committee of expo -2017.
Kazagro ubx, together with Ak and the Hungarian Export-Import Bank, opened a fund to finance agricultural projects.
this situation will continue.
Mexican partners are interested in expanding trade and economic ties with the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, the report said.
Almaty akimat pays special attention to the development of the production belt. almaty akimat pays great attention to development of food belt .
expo has a very high potential in terms of global discussion. the expo has a great potential in terms of the global discussion .
N.Nazarbayev, speaking about Kazakhstan's identity, said that there was a nation. when nursultan nazarbayev said about the kazakh identity that the nation ( the nation of common future ) had been created , the president put the meaning of " identical to me " to the concept of the identity .
The State Commission for the Modernization of the Economy under the Government of Kazakhstan allowed the sale of various shares of 10 companies of the samruk-kazyna group.
in Kostanai, all patients were ready for the arrival of the train. in kostanai , all patients were very well prepared for the profile .
Within the framework of the forum, in the field of science and technology management, tools will be presented to support advanced solutions in the field of scientific potential and definition in areas of growth for the future (including the conditions for the development of analysis and research tools, patent analytics, bibliographic analysis), such as thomson reuters, springer, elsevier and other leading world companies, as envisaged in this area.
a new law on charitable, sponsorship and philanthropic activities has also been adopted.
As evidence of this, in 2016 drinking water will be attracted to 8 settlements, sewerage to 5 settlements, electricity to 5 settlements, gas to 2 settlements.
Our compatriots, such as China, the Netherlands, France, Kyrgyzstan, actively participate in our ranks.
At the XVII extraordinary congress of the Nұr Otan party, the head of state delivered a large election program.
During the meeting, the Kazakh side shared innovations in the legislation on subsoil use, the activities of "kazgeology" and achievements in this area.
for its part, the region will, together with central authorities, submit projects requiring investment in agriculture, tourism, logistics and infrastructure.
At the end of the meeting, the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region and the company "vanhool" signed memoranda of cooperation with the company "caspian services" for the construction of a bus building plant in Kyzylorda region and the development of the Baikonur complex.
Askar Isabekovich Myrzakhmetov was appointed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - said K. Maxim.
now a new stage in the development of the Kazakh public service has begun.
today everyone expects that Kazakhstan will help this situation.
in the capital, pilot projects of the "smart city" are being implemented in the fields of education, health, culture, the transport system, as well as the city's integrated life support system.
here it is necessary to tighten the requirements for legislation.
Kazakhstanis abroad take an active part in the elections, "said R. Vasilenko.
Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke about the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union.
in this way you will assist yourself and Kazakhstan, all our people.
by the way, discrimination in the convention "includes any difference, denial, restriction or granting of privileges based on race, color, sex, language, religious, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, economic situation or grounds of birth.
marat muratovich akhmetzhanov deputy prosecutor general of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The Head of State noted that the first graduates of Nazarbayev University contribute to the prosperity of Kazakhstan.
Economic growth fell by 4.3%, last year was by one percent, last year consumer goods grew by 15%, to 7.4% a year earlier. the pace of the economic growth has worsened by 4.3 % , and last year by 1 % , while the consumer prices were increased by 15 % last year , " the article reads .
According to the press service of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content "nadloc" (world of Kazakhstan), this is a new approach to support domestic producers in the conditions of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO and the EAEU.
uranium mines and conversion plants in Canada and Aksu, as well as kazatomprom, together with oneself, own a stake in 60% of the Incai joint venture.
Over the past ten years, Kazakhstan's economic growth has doubled and helped the state become ten energy economies in the world, "he said.
a number of bilateral meetings are also planned.
the session will also be interested in discussing the responsibility of our companies and social stability. it will also be interesting to discuss the issue of social sustainability , responsibility in our companies .
in the future, in the field of animal husbandry, it is planned to cover with such means, "N. Malelov added.
this is the main foundation of our future.
different countries are considering different solutions.
The health festival will end on June 11 at 11:00 Moscow time with an instant "health marathon" with the participation of residents of the republic.
the governor emphasized the importance of strengthening cooperation between the regions for the Penza region.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that diplomats have begun a new stage of their activities on the eve of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence.
and what do we know about monkeys?
in the program of the session, the first deputy prime minister b. sagintayev, the chairman of the eidu frederick jenny competition committee and representatives of the world's leading antimonopoly authorities.
The head of state noted that today roads are being built in the country, the industry is developing, new jobs and innovative enterprises are opening.
global nuclear security summits are very important.
at the exhibition we saw the products of mechanical engineering, medicine, oil plants, "said B. Sagintayev.
for this, the country has all the conditions - a cheap park, cheap electricity and cheap labor.
tour operators, guide translators, representatives of the migration service and transport companies.
as a result, Kazagrogarant will become the guarantor of break-even activities of insurance companies in the event of an accident, thereby increasing the investment attractiveness of the industry.
In addition, each party works not only in the center, but also in the regions, trying to explain its programs to the citizens of the country as much as possible, "he said.
the partnership will support investment in accordance with the economic development plans of the two countries, as well as achieve their effectiveness.
Karim Massim once again noted that Kazakhstan in every possible way supports Chinese initiatives - "one belt, one way," including the implementation of the "silk road economic belt" program.
Despite the crisis, Kazakhstan continued its expected move.
in difficult world conditions, we are taking practical actions to preserve the unity and stability of our country in connection with the new reform, "said A. Beisenbayev.
According to the expert, "people with a new approach to paralyment are needed."
- Copyright and Related Law Agreement,
The investments of the kgf fund will be aimed at further expanding the activities of the kazgrain group of companies, attracting advanced technologies from abroad, achieving leading positions in the markets of Central Asian countries, "said the managing director of adm capital.
Kaztekhnologii also signed a memorandum with the Russian company Mnb Alloy on the modernization and testing of rockets on the hail-1 dazzh.
At the end of the meeting, in accordance with article 87 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and article 10 of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan," the Kha Council nominated 9 candidates elected from the assembly to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It says that each ceremony connects its fate and future with Kazakhstan, "he said.
B. Amreev presented to the head of the Tunisian Foreign Ministry a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idristov.
Among them are the ammunition of the late 40s, 50-60s, "said the director of the department of white" kaztechnology "erbol alibekov.
the world is now changing rapidly.
children passed a special selection, taking into account their appearance, motivation, ability to listen to music, ability to work with artists, conductors and directors.
To ensure the timely commissioning of housing, it is necessary to accelerate the recruitment of housing infrastructure, "said the Vice Minister.
In order to obtain the mandate of trust of Kazakhstan, the deputies made such a decision, the parliament and political parties are preparing for practical work, "said B. Tulegenov.
The Government of Kazakhstan has been instructed to develop this project.
we must preserve it, give our unity to the younger generation, "he concluded.
Last year alone, 5 projects totaling 2.3 billion tenge were launched.
The new corps of deputies comes with new ideas for the implementation of the tasks, "said Y. Shakhshaev.
Speaking at the open session, the Permanent Chairman of Kazakhstan greedy Abdrakhmanov informed the delegations of the UN member states about the important priorities of Nursultan Nazarbayev and Kazakhstan's position on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
During the board meeting, Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development Svetlana Zhakupova informed about the introduction of targeted social assistance of a new model.
At the beginning of the year, as part of the kaznex invest project, we visited Ball Textiles LLP in South Kazakhstan region.
for example, agriculture is a traditional industry.
from the national fund through the Development Fund to 79 small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) - 21.1 million rubles. tenge.
This project provides for an educational seminar, consisting of two stages, for representatives of the leadership corps "a," as well as for employees responsible for hr-management in state bodies, the academy.
The Government of our country has done a great job.
3,335 deputies from maslikhats of all levels, including from regions-550, cities-625 and 2-160 district maslikhats, will be elected to local bodies of representatives, "he said.
Today, all programs and mechanisms of state support are aimed primarily at the entrepreneurial sector, the production of goods, the production of high-quality products on the foreign and domestic markets, and the improvement of the quality of services. today , all the programs of state support are focused on private enterprises , products , services and activities to ensure improvement of their quality and the promotion of domestic and foreign markets .
As the president of public fund noted, now for implementation of this program approaches, approaches and models of new people are necessary.
The Development Fund works in the financial and non-financial areas.
The agreement is aimed at creating favorable rights and protecting investments, improving the investment climate and further managing the mutually beneficial trade and economic community between the two countries, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
I wish all your wishes to be fulfilled.
He also noted that the medical center clinic received an international certificate of quality and a standard of treatment for patients - American jci standards.
During the meeting, B. Al-ahram presented the head of al-ahram with an invitation to the XIII Eurasian Media Forum, which will be held in Astana on April 20-22.
- Director of Law and Law LLP, Head of Party Reception Company for the year
signed an agreement on bilateral intergovernmental cooperation in the field of education.
About 50 joint ventures were registered in Kazakhstan, 6 joint projects worth more than 700 million dollars were implemented.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions.
Currently, sheet products and distillery products are marked in Kazakhstan.
"said Laurent briel.
in accordance with the electoral law, citizens of Kazakhstan who arrived abroad, if they have their passports, will be registered at polling stations, "said R. Vasilenko.
In addition, the diplomat noted the social part of the message as an important part.
during this time, conscripts of the regional commands "south," "west," "east," air defense forces, special troops, military units of the main directorate of the military police, the central sports club of the army and the main communications department took the military oath.
At the same time, as the director of the department noted, an analysis was carried out - monitoring of the main sectors of the economy.
The volume of investments will amount to 250.0 million tenge and will provide work for 50 people.
Also, the bill "On the ratification of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union and on state membership on the one hand and the Vietnamese Socialist Republic on the other" does not negatively affect the development of the country.
akiu is headquartered in Astana.
Work is underway to create a dealer network, a sales department is working, "he said.
including the world's largest inter-parliamentary assemblies: the inter-parliamentary union, the inter-parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, the inter-parliamentary assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the parliamentary association of the commonwealth (nations).
Kazakhstan and the United States attach great importance to nuclear security summits, noting the importance of continuing to strengthen the current cooperation of the parties on nuclear security issues and strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Within republican stock "Train" M g_l_k ate", the independence of RK devoted to the 25 anniversary, specialists of the Ministry of health and social development of RK consulted 761 citizens, including 452 persons concerning social security (charge of pensions, employment, definition of group of disability, rendering additional social assistance, crediting according to the Road Map of Employment of 2020 program, participation in the rise program, rehabilitation of disabled people, etc.).
the main goal of this idea is to give a representative of the government system a new wave.
Chairman of the Board of the national company Astana Expo-2017 Akhmetzhan Yessimov and Commissioner of the Section of the Swiss Confederation Manuel Salhi.
this project is included in the map of regional industrialization and is implemented together with the "global chemicals company" - the leader in Central Asia for the sale of chemical reagents.
the years of independence of Kazakhstan have become the "golden" time of our people, and the high heights will be submitted further, "concluded M. Absemetov.
President of the Fund for the Development of Parliamentarism of Kazakhstan Zauresh Battalova proposed to make a decision not by public vote, but by patual decision.
all polling stations visited by mission representatives included observers from political parties, representatives of public associations, international organizations and gardens.
The event was attended by representatives of Kazakhstan, Atameken, representatives of domestic manufacturers, heads of foreign pharmaceutical companies, etc.
As of March 1, 2016, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 175 observers from international organizations and foreign states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan wished the deputies of the Majilis of the parliament of the new convocation good luck in working in the interests of Kazakhstanis.
According to preliminary data, in the first quarter of 2016, gross domestic product grew by 6% by stimulating the construction market in civil and industrial construction, "said R. Sklyar.
The organizers of this session were the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the exhibition Expo-2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Academy of Rural Sciences, Nazarbayev University.
In our opinion, this is a great diplomatic victory for the head of state, "he added.
In general, this is the range of issues that attract our main attention.
The cost of the project is 787.8 million tenge.
moving into a blanket is a proven principle for us and the right model of fiscal policy, especially in the face of the impact of the global crisis.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has formed a modern space infrastructure, but it requires further improvement.
One of the priorities of coca-cola is to support women, in particular, providing economic assistance to women, that is, assistance to improve their well-being. one of the priorities of coca-cola company is the support for women , namely the economic support for women , in other words to help them to improve their well-being .
I am sure that the implementation of the goals and principles of the union will give a powerful impetus to the economy of our countries, "the head of state said.
The agreement strengthens the obligations of the parties to protect intellectual property rights, defines the scope of cooperation in the field of e-commerce, sustainable development, "he said.
Following the meeting, the parties noted the general political and economic situation between the member countries and agreed to support a constructive dialogue on all issues within the council.
many support our initiative, "said V. Baimanov.
in addition, new large enterprises are being built in the region.
got acquainted with the work of the new clinic.	therefore , english opens new possibilities ,  - said dariga nazarbayeva .
As a result of the activities of these companies in January 2016, the trade turnover between Almaty and China reached 100 million US dollars, the report said.
the council itself has become an open platform for dialogue of the most important topics for investors, for our country.
the exhibition will give an impetus to diversifying the economy and strengthening the system of technological modernization of production facilities and the scientific base of the country.
I think that Kazakhstan will unite the whole world in the fight against terrorism, "said the American expert.
in accordance with the calendar plan approved by the Central Election Commission, nomination for deputies of maslikhats is carried out until February 19, 2016, and registration - until February 23.
All devices are high-tech, up to 70% energy efficient, "said the CEO.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan has always supported and made a significant contribution to the process of international negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program.
if we talk about basic pension payments and minimum pension, then within the framework of the law in 2016 the republican budget will amount to 11,965 tenge, the minimum pension - 26,824 tenge.
I think that Kazakhstan is going to a new government system, and our neighbors are ready for this experimentally.
global changes require the state to take measures, "said Abdykalikov.
many of them, according to the first vice-minister, are the result of a lack of coordination in the work of state bodies and the seaport.
The main purpose of the seminar is to improve cooperation with the African diplomatic community in supporting and incorporating their implementing national legislation and strategic development plans.
Among the winners of the 2015 prize are Russian President Vladimir Putin, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenok, Chinese President Xi jinping, Chairman of the State Council and Council of Ministers of the Cuban Republic raul castro, first President of Tatarstan Timer Shaimiev, Patriarch of Moscow Kirill, academician leo bokeria, filmmaker nikita mikhalkov.
also such expositions are located in national companies, holdings and in ak.
In his speech, the Commissioner familiarized the public with the economic reform of the country and the direction of tourism development of Kazakhstan and the preparatory work for the EXPO in the capital.
- What work is carried out in the regions?
As part of the World Festival, guests of the capital and the city will be able to get acquainted with the musical culture of Shu member states, visit the national culture of other countries, and world musical culture.
The head of state stressed that everyone should show their effectiveness and the need for work. "- said K. Ishimbayev.
we build it for budget employees and will definitely give apartments to teachers, doctors, employees of budget organizations.
We also call on all public associations and non-governmental organizations of our country, all citizens to support our initiative.
this undermines the safety of thousands of people, "said the Minister of Energy.
The volume of industrial production today is 646.3 billion tenge with an increase of 0.2%.
I believe that in our city all conditions have been created for the development of mass sports.
in Pavlodar region there is a plant for the production of caustic soda and chlorine.
women had very low levels of intervention in state power and decision-making, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
we will comprehensively control the electoral process, conduct public monitoring, conduct consultations, "said the rector of the Kunaev Eurasian Law Academy, chairman of the republican public association Lawyers for Fair Elections.
The originals of the documents are stored in the president's archive, "he said.
we produce the republican volume of grain.
in the food industry, a project for the production of dairy products "danone" in the Almaty region can be noted.
The Union was formed as a modern international organization that is ready to solve the economic issues of countries, "said V. Putin.
The Speaker of the Majilis noted that the chairmanship of our country was carried out on the basis of the platform approved by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The head of the ecu/diakb mission, in turn, thanked for the organization of the meeting, as well as for the assistance and cooperation from the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan and spoke about the organization of the work of the experts of the mission.
Despite the growth of SMEs, the share of this segment of entrepreneurship in the country's economy is declining. despite the growth of smes , there is a decrease of the contribution of this business segment in the country 's economy due to the deterioration of the external environment and to reduce lending to the economy of the second-tier banks .
The Dutch politician noted that the theme of the "energy of the future" of the Expo 2017 exhibition is very interesting for the Netherlands and next year preparations are underway for participation in this exhibition.
The President of Kazakhstan called for a deal to incite the conflict and resolve the conflict between Ukraine and Russia.
In addition, we noticed that Kazakhstanis are very responsible for the elections, "the Chinese observer said.
- I ask you not to reduce production volumes and if possible bring to the level of last year.
a new look, new ideas and a powerful impulse are all the requirements of time and time, "said the political scientist.
The Altai club became the champion, whose multiple chepion was won by the Taldykorgan Zhetysu.
Last year we had 7 specialties, now there are 16.	last year , we had seven professions , now we have 16 .	1,12
in the past year, Kazakhstan confidently advanced along the path of accelerated development. in the outgoing year kazakhstan has confidently advanced on the path of the progressive development .
The theme of EXPO-2017 is called "energy of the future."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the construction project of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway was implemented with the direct participation of Kh.rukhani.
all polling stations will be equipped with basic food, telephone networks and necessary equipment, "said E. Aimagambetov.
During the meeting, heads of large Aktobe enterprises can present their projects and negotiate with potential investors.
our military department is trained in four specialties. our military department trains in four specialties .
I am grateful and grateful to the people.
There is no need to wait a year to renew the lower house of parliament, "said A. Akhmetov.
100 concrete steps of the head of state "- at 86, 87, 88 steps of the" identity and unity "section of the Plan for the entry of the Republic of Kazakhstan into the thirty developed states.
Dear reader, the editors of aa "strategy2050.kz" congratulate everyone on the New Year - the year of the fiery mosque.
in-depth exchange of views on topical global and regional issues, including in Central Asia, Afghanistan, Iran, the near east, etc.
It should be noted that the Carnegie Foundation is a non-profit private organization whose main task is to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the world.
I think that the difference between them can be about 1-2%, "said B. Rakyshev.
Adopted by the Government of Kazakhstan in the spring of 2015, the single program of business development and support "Business Roadmap 2020" showed the dynamic growth of the business of women entrepreneurs.
According to him, a lot of work is being done in the region to develop dairy and dairy products, meat production and increase exports.
The purpose of the event is to exchange experience on further full-fledged implementation of the project in all regions of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan reports.
Construction work at the Student Games will be continued and will be carried out within the framework of the fisu program, "the akim said.
More than 50 companies of the sports industry gather under the shanyrak "sportfestastana."
today there is geopolitical instability in the world.
According to N. Altayev, the specifics of the competition this year is connected with a change in the composition of the commission.
As the minister noted, debt control, like previous years, is the main work of tax authorities.
our athletes should look good at the parade, and the main task is to win the Olympic Games, "said Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Saken Musaybekov.
in the message the Head of state noted that construction of rent housing with a possibility of repayment as the main direction of housing construction will become the program "Nrla zhol"", - told the river sklyar.
In the near future we will complete the construction of a new bridge over the Irtysh River in Pavlodar.
- 7 billion 985 million 300 thousand tenge will be required to hold elections of deputies of majilis and deputies of maslikhats of all levels.
Most importantly, the presentation of Astana Expo 2017 was the focus of attention of the participants of the meeting.
It is very important that political parties receive a new mandate of confidence from voters during the period when they began the practical implementation of large-scale reforms of the head of state, "Tokaev said.
we must reach the level of world civilized countries.
we tried to create a convenient interface for each user. we tried to create a clear interface for each user .
we developed a roadmap for it.
- this holiday - the day of the first president of Kazakhstan - makes a lot of sense.
there should be no unemployment in Kazakhstan.
The Commission is represented by representatives of all regions. the commission presented all the regions , we invited to cooperate all who is not indifferent to the future .
such a mechanism has been successfully implemented in a number of countries around the world.
These activities of the Ministry of Education and Science need to begin with primary classes, "the president said.
an intergovernmental commission of the two countries was created, which is working on the development of trade, economic, industrial and scientific and technical cooperation.	as you know , there is an intergovernmental commission between the two countries on trade , economic , industrial and scientific-technical cooperation .	1,13
Recall, 7 years ago at the London Paralympics Kazakhstan was represented by 7 athletes.	recall , four years ago kazakhstan was presented by the 7 participants at the london paralympics .	1,13
However, in our opinion, the ahko and domestic market should grow together and we will work on this in the future, "he said.
the creative project of a bright star organizes various competitions.
The peak of the implementation of the reforms of the President of Kazakhstan is the way to the Kazakh dream. "
During the talks, the two heads of state discussed topical issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, as well as discussed issues of further strengthening cooperation between member states within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
we are in favour of the evolutionary development of the State.
At the same time, according to the expert, Kazakhstan civil conformity can be strengthened by the joint efforts of the state, society and citizen.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan clearly outlined the vector of implementation of the anti-crisis program. nursultan nazarbayev clearly identified the main vectors of anti-crisis program in the president 's address .
According to them, candidates are nominated from Astana, Zhambyl, Kyzylorda, Akmola regions.
what do you think that means?
constantly carries out measures aimed at increasing Kazakh-German cooperation in the political, economic and cultural spheres.
The head of state noted the invaluable role of women in the formation and development of the country, wished them health, love, well-being and success.
the Committee on Constitutional Law, the Judiciary and Law Enforcement "on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters," "on legal acts," "on amending certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of legal acts," "On arbitration," "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on arbitration issues."
The organization of such a large-scale event is an initiative of the head of state.
According to him, stage 1 was completed, following which the law "On Competition" was adopted.
In his speech, President Nazarbayev noted that in the context of the crisis there are new opportunities. president nazarbayev also pointed out that there are opportunities in a crisis like this .
As part of the implementation of the National Plan 100 concrete steps, amendments were made to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in terms of increasing the terms of land leases, simplifying tax administration and providing investment preferences for foreign investors: the term of land leases for foreign companies increases from 10 to 25 years, as part of the Agrobusiness 2020 program, investment investments in priority areas in the amount of 30-80% are subsidized.
members of the government are educated, young, speaking languages, masters of their work.
As a result, by the end of the year meat production will increase by 14.6 thousand tons and reach 330.4 thousand tons.
it is necessary to monitor the financial situation daily and take operational measures together with the government, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
to date, the surplus in Kazakhstan is 4-5 thousand. MW.
The construction of a new power unit began 4 years ago.
In this regard the national idea "The m g_l_k Ate" defines our historical long way.
these engines are used in the chemical and petrochemical industries, oil refineries, oil and gas pipelines, pharmaceutical and graphic industries, thermal power plants, ships, manufacturing and offshore platforms.
We actively work with international specialists of the World Bank and use the methodology of building a digital economy. we have actively worked with the international experts of the world bank , using the methodology of the digital economy .
An important point of the universal declaration on achieving a nuclear-weapon-free world is the proposal to direct significant funds allocated to supporting nuclear weapons to international security, the fight against poverty, "said B.Sadykov.
it is important that the new holiday coincides with the birthday of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
a great deal of work has been done to create a legal framework for citizens, to increase the social and economic activity of young people.
we look to the future with great confidence.
earlier this procedure was adopted in the law "On Oil" and "On the Use of Natural Resources."
the president paid great attention to him.
historical consciousness is very important for every people.
Investments in fixed assets in 2015 amounted to 226.6 billion tenge or 105.9% in 2014, the report said.
- Mr. Jabbarli, what, in your opinion, are the main achievements of Kazakhstan and its leader during the years of independence?
the arrival of doctors is very useful for the population. the arrival of the doctors is very useful for population and physicians .
release of a commercial malfunction, damage to covered cars, tanks, gondola cars, automatic control, "said Yevgeny Tkachenko.
in this regard, by April 2016, drafts of a new concept for the formation and use of funds of the national fund and the budget code will be developed in a new version until August 2016.
And over the past six years, we have been actively industrializing the country to increase the share of the manufacturing industry, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
It is an honor for us that we are the organizers of such a major event, given the desire of the entrepreneurial community to participate in this competition, "he said.
Kabibullah Jakupov expressed gratitude to the Pakistani side for supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, as well as for joining the charter of the Islamic organization for food security, which is headquartered in the capital.
the role of the head of state cannot be called.
The factory for the production of freight and passenger electric locomotives was built using the technology of the French company alstom transport, which was implemented as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development for 2010-2014.
This year, today at the UN, the Kazakh leader took the initiative to solve political problems and strengthen security.
It is very important that young people receive a working specialty, for which the state provides all the opportunities, "said B. Sultanov.
if you are a peaceful country, fulfill all the requirements of the magate, Kazakhstan can refuel you.
Following the meeting with the Prosecutor General of Iran, the parties signed a memorandum of cooperation between the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Prosecutor General's Office of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
to date, all eidu recommendations have been taken into account. nowadays almost all the oecd recommendations have been incorporated .
there is no tension between countries, now we share harmony in many international issues and support a bilateral, multilateral basis.
these reforms, the accomplishment of the tasks interlinked with them, which I set in this message, will be difficult, perhaps even difficult.
It should be noted that the first meeting of the international council at the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan chaired by the head of the Supreme Court was held in the capital.
contestants will compete in cooking, network and system administration, web development, hairdressing, clothing design, restaurant service, welding technology, confectionery, preschool education.
we have an agrarian-industrial region, there are all the needs in the industrial zone, "said the head of the region.
dear compatriots, we live in a beautiful country, so let's love our homeland, "said Olga Rypakova.
the impact of the employment program, providing jobs "LCD-2020," "Nұrly zhol" and all comprehensive programs.
our region is agrarian.
firstly, in the medium term, the entire world economy will operate in the new conditions.
- now one traditional question.
According to him, the topic of "energy of the future" is very important, and Russia will work within the framework of this project not only with Kazakhstanis, but also in other countries.
we ourselves visited the polling stations, met with election commissions, voters, talked and watched the process as a whole.
In 2016, it is planned to implement 78 projects worth 7 billion tenge in Kazakhstan with the participation of anchor investors and transnational companies.
our partnership has made it possible to unleash the potential of active women of full-fledged Kazakhstan. our partnership has allowed to unlock the full potential of women in kazakhstan .
According to the results of the implementation of the State Program for the Development of Health Care "Healthy Kazakhstan" in the region, mortality from oncological diseases was reduced by 6.8%, newborns - by 9.7%, blood circulation patients - by 3.8%, said the head of the regional health department Vadim Ovsyannikov.
1592 registered candidates are registered in regional maslikhats, 121 - in maslikhats of Astana, 130 - in maslikhats of Almaty.
in particular, to Russia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Following the meeting, Governor's Office of the region, heads of enterprises, trade union committee and national companies signed several memoranda on mutual cooperation in two directions.
During the meeting, the head of state noted the importance of continuing to stabilize the region's economy, implement state programs, as well as implement anti-crisis measures in order to increase employment and improve the well-being of the population.
- The Silk Road long-term expanded cooperation programme with Iran;
The forthcoming Kazakh forum on privatization, organized jointly with the samruk-treasury and the authoritative international publishing house the financial times, will provide detailed information on the practical implementation of the process and the current situation.
In total, 107 deputies will be selected during the election campaign, of which 98 from the party list and 9 from kha. in total , 107 deputies of the majilis will be elected within the election campaign , including 98 deputies according to the party lists and 9 - from the apk .
attending school classrooms, a gym, an exhibition of creative and research works.
currently 1.5 thousand workers are participating in its construction.
experts exchanged views on topical issues of military science and the theory of military construction, the formation of a military organization of the state, as well as threats arising in the space of the shu.
Kazakhstan has constantly supported the process of conducting international negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program and has made a real contribution to it.
On the one hand, Canada itself held an expo in 1967. on the one hand , in 1967 , canada held expo .
a country with great development potential in Kazakhstan. kazakhstan is a country with the great potential for development .
we made sure there were a lot of them.
it is of great importance to us.
first of all, it is online payment of taxes, state savings, payments and penalties for violation of rights, "he added.
there are two main reasons.
many cultural and scientific figures have reached great heights and have shown good results, "he said.
investors provide land, provide the necessary infrastructure for the production of new products.
It is important for us, the military, for the development of Kazakhstan to increase the combat readiness of fighters and the defense capabilities of our country.
He also noted that by the end of this year it is planned to hold a "road show," within the framework of which foreign investors will be provided with information about the capabilities of the center.
It should be noted that the Astana Economic Forum is held in the capital of Kazakhstan, in which 5,000 delegates from 80 countries take part.
participants of Astana, Almaty, Kyzylorda, East Kazakhstan regions shared the second and third places.
we carry out preliminary work, determine the place of control. we will meet , we will hold a primary job , define the place where we will conduct surveillance , take a look at the work of the polling stations .
As of January 1 of this year, the program covered 35,786 people, the annual plan was completed by 129.2%.
to date, the Taraz Chemical Park has completed construction and installation work on external infrastructure: access roads, access railways, gas pipelines - branches.
more than 180 million tenge will be allocated for the construction of communal and rental housing in the areas of sewage and kobylin centers.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of healthcare development to improve the life of the population.
therefore, we must clearly relate to external factors, "said A. Peruashev.
according to the minister, these funds will support the main priorities of the country's socio-economic development and implement the government's strategic measures to stimulate the economy and engage in economic growth.
the development of human capital is now an important moment. now one of the important points is the development of human capital .
The updated draft budget provides 45 billion tenge next year to complete the construction of 76 schools for the elimination of emergency schools and three shifts, "B.Sultanov said.
in accordance with the legislation, we must submit documents on behalf of the Nur Otan party for candidates for deputies of the Majilis.
now prices are higher on the Russian market than on ours, so our ministry constantly monitors and takes measures to saturate the domestic market in order to avoid a shortage, "the minister said.
among them are well-known republican politicians, public figures, athletes and actors.
- Tatyana Vitalievna, the central election commission pays special attention to the activities of observers.
The session is attended by members of the Kha delegation from all regions of the country, members of the regional ethnocultural center, public figures, scientists and creative intelligentsia, international observers and foreign parks.
infrastructure projects implemented under the state program "Nұrly zhol" have a significant multiplier effect on the development of the construction industry and support for business activity and employment in the economy as a whole.
Currently, the construction and installation work of the plant has been completed, in which more than 20 people took part.
Approximately all engines can export products to Italy, Germany, Finland, Spain, the UK and other countries.
In the first direction of the road map, 29 of the 32 planned projects were implemented. as part of the first direction of the roadmap , 29 of 32 planned projects have been completed .
During the exhibition, tickets will be more expensive than the current ones for 30-35%. during the exhibition , tickets will cost 30-35 % more expensive than now , " - she explained .
understanding that in this difficult situation, the most important thing for all of us is to live without loss, save resources, save jobs. in this difficult situation , the most important thing for all of us is to understand that we must live within our means , save resources , save jobs .
industrial production amounted to 1.6 trillion tenge. the volume of industrial production amounted to 1.6 trillion tenge .
The event was organized with the assistance of the international company gbc with the support of the Ministry of Energy and the kazenergy association.
As you know, international organizations can send observers and set up their missions in Kazakhstan.
the role of maslikhat in our socio-political life is increasing. the role of maslikhats in our social and political life is constantly increasing .
several projects have been developed accordingly.
In his speech, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Bolat Nusipov noted the significance and specifics of such important domestic political events as the presidential elections of the outgoing year, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, etc.
this is the production of polymer products in the Atyrau region, the production of aluminum in the Almaty region, pharmaceutical plants in the Almaty and Karaganda regions.
Kazakhstan, as the world's largest producer of uranium and a country that has mastered a large nuclear atamur, cannot but pay attention to the development of its nuclear industry. kazakhstan as world 's largest uranium producer and a country with a huge nuclear legacy pays special attention to the development of its nuclear industry .
today, the most promising and new effective means of electronic warfare and electronic reconnaissance "reppelent" and "autobaz-m"
The Army International Games 2016 is scheduled to be held from July 30 to August 13.
Ye.Dyrissov noted that cooperation with the UN is one of the priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy.
it will be very useful both for the Afghan side and for us, "he said.
he produces 300 million eggs per year, 102 tons of crushed poultry meat.
The Minister also congratulated Kazakhstanis on joining the World Trade Union and expressed a desire to diversify trade and economic exchange between the countries.
3,335 deputies from maslikhats of all levels, including from regions-550, cities-625 and 2-160 district maslikhats, will be elected to local bodies of representatives, "he said.
he is strongly opposed to any conflicts.
The introduction of the auxiliary national rating "doing business" in Kazakhstan is a continuation of the systematic work of the government to improve the business climate in the country.
building confidence in the national currency through the expansion of de-dollarization mechanisms. it is important to strengthen confidence in the national currency by expanding the tools of de-dollarization .
The Central Election Commission provides the necessary organizational, methodological and information support to the lower election commissions, providing them with appropriate tools, brochures, as well as print, audio and video materials, "said K. Turgankulov.
An honorary senior minister, the former Prime Minister of Singapore, also met at the Astana Presidential Palace.
As noted by I. Reissenen, confidence in partnership with Kazakhstan in priority sectors of the economy has been increased.
In turn, K. Bishimbayev emphasized that "the Ministry of National Economy is the main department within the government, therefore I direct all my knowledge and experience to fulfill the tasks set by the head of state together with the staff of the ministry."
Senators also ratified a loan agreement (the first loan for financing development policies in the field of macroeconomic management and improving economic competitiveness) between Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
the state apparatus should work technologically, as a service activity for society.
every step of this program is being worked out.
In addition, the Mayor of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov familiarized the head of state with the projects of the republican competition for the best sketch-idea of ​ ​ architectural and sculptural compositions "Sign of the Capital," dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence.
this is a global event.
I am honoured to meet your President.
On March 12, at the next 9th meeting of the Kazakh-Turkish intergovernmental economic commission chaired by Asset Issekeshev and the Turkish Minister of Economy Mustafa Elitash, various issues of cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres were discussed, including joint industrial zones, transport and energy, small and medium-sized businesses, agriculture, education and health, technical regulation, culture and tourism, as well as regulatory and legal issues.
this site is jointly implemented by the Information, Communications and Informatization Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development, Kazkontent JSC and National Information Technologies JSC, "said Zh. Sholakov.
Such a system, which will give impetus to the construction sector, will save jobs and create new jobs, "he said.
Nevertheless, this year we will try to rectify this situation, "he said.
the law links the work of all bodies. the law codifies the relationship of all bodies that will be involved in the state audit .
we have to use it.
The Republic of Kazakhstan and the United States of America reaffirmed their joint positions in the implementation of concrete measures for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the strengthening of the nuclear security regime.
This work will contribute to the open conduct of the commission's work and strengthen confidence in the decisions of the judges, "he said.
One of the priority projects for the development of transport infrastructure in the region is the "center-west" project, connecting the capital and the western regions of the country.
The National Bank of Kazakhstan donated to the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan coins and banknotes of the national currency of Kazakhstan, presented as part of the permanent exposition of the national currency.
ii. anti-crisis capabilities of Kazakhstan
I am grateful to the state for such support.
the new composition of meetings and the updated composition of maslikhats in the new conditions will lead to the prosperity of Kazakhstan in difficult times, "he said.
In 2015, the company produced more than 800 kg of gold.
K. Trečekas and R. During the meeting with Yankauskas, the prospects and directions for the development of bilateral cooperation between the countries, the conditions for the participation of the Lithuanian government and local companies in the field of green technologies, as well as Lithuanian projects in the field of renewable and alternative energy sources were discussed.
Last year 3, fishing increased by 2 thousand tons, or by 30%.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has achieved great success, and the role of the leader in this is very great. over the years of independence kazakhstan has achieved great success .
At the end of the meeting, he thanked the Serbian delegation for participating in the international specialized exhibition Astana-Expo-2017, and also invited him to take part in the IX Astana Economic Forum, which will be held in the capital on May 25-26 this year.
this will expand our capabilities and strengthen the eo, "said Dmitry Verkhoturov.
a deeper study of logistics topics will be carried out by the logistics and technical support groups, for the remaining groups - the study of the fundamentals of military logistics, "said a researcher at the National Research Institute for Training, Dr. phd Colonel Aydar Berdibekov.
we are proud to live in multinational Kazakhstan.
the fate of the world is now being decided in the middle east. the fate of the whole world hangs in the balance in the middle east .
The main partner of this school is the British Council.
I am glad that at the XXVI Congress of the Nұr Otan Party I gave me an order.
all funds found will be allocated to charity.
according to the agreement - to attract young people, including low-income, unemployed, disabled people and other social groups, to promote the development of social and life skills of young people in the program, "said the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in its address to the participants of the general conference, the Kazakh delegation positively assessed the report of the head of UNIDO on the implementation of the lima declaration and informed about the contribution of Kazakhstan to inclusive and sustainable industrial development, including the New Economic Policy "Nұrly zhol," "expo 2017," plans for the creation of an official development assistance agency and an Islamic food security organization, a green bridge partnership program, etc.
billions of tenge are allocated annually in the region for support.
Kazakhstan's 100 Concrete Steps Plan "is an example of ambitious and broad initiatives aimed at modernizing the state apparatus in accordance with the Eidu standard. and here we understand that it will not be easy to achieve structural reform, in this regard, this requires clear steps from our side, as well as support from all ministries, departments and citizens.
The heads of state also touched upon issues of strengthening cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, agricultural and transport and transit spheres.
Of course, this is a vivid example of our interaction.
On March 2, 2016, the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan registered 9 candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan nominated by the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. 9 candidates nominated by the people 's assembly of kazakhstan were registered by the central election commission on march 2 , " secretary of the commission bakhyt meldeshov said at a briefing on saturday .
From August 2 to 9, 2016, on the basis of the training paligon "Guards" of the Kordai district of the Zhambyl region, competitions "masters of artillery lights" and "sniper border" will be held.
Kazakhstan occupies one of the leading places in the openness and independence of the judiciary. kazakhstan is one of the best in the transparency and independence of the judiciary .
The head of state expressed confidence that effective ties based on friendly and mutual relations between Kazakhstan and Vietnam will dynamically develop for the benefit of the two republics.
CIS, as well as Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, India, Korea, Malaysia and Mongolia.
all these years, the state created conditions for the development of business and entrepreneurship. the government has created all conditions for the development of business and entrepreneurship .
nevertheless, a new person comes, new directions.
One of the 6 projects is the construction of a plant for the production of motor fuels of the ecological class k5 ("condensate" white).
The volume of trade turnover for the month exceeded 6 million tenge, where the products of 35 Kazakhstani producers are represented.
what is your opinion in this regard?
relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey are developing in all directions.	the relations between kazakhstan and turkey are consistently developing in all areas .	1,14
The head of state talked with employees of enterprises, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses of the region.	the head of state spoke with the company 's employees and representatives of small and medium-sized businesses .	1,14
this will allow you to withdraw another partner, "he said.
The ultimate goal of all my assignments is the care of the common man, his well-being and stability of life, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Elections at the beginning of the year are an important strategic decision, "said A. Yeshmuratov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also met with students of the Young Ulan republican school.
The event was attended by representatives of the expert community of Russia, China, Turkey, Germany and other countries.
From 2016 to 2018, the fund will attract 252.5 billion tenge from the Asian Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
in the city, a doctor, engineer, tailor, cook, pastry chef, gas and electric welders are still in demand.
independence is the main achievement of the people of Kazakhstan. independence is the main achievement of the people of kazakhstan .
this will lead to a deepening of our relationship.
Kazakhstan cannot be exposed to a deep crisis, because the economy has the driving force.
This event will not only become a landmark political event of last year, but will also bear the fruits that we all hope, "said L. Susainova.
Kazakhstan is characterized by its stability among all countries. kazakhstan is resistant to current problems in the economy .
company leaders agreed to regulate the main regimes of the bklk white operating module, including expanding partnerships on the railway border between Russia, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Belarus.
Kazakhstan is confident that the creation of a nuclear-free world will be achieved only if there are strong political efforts of all countries on Earth, "the head of state said in a statement.
In his speech, the Chairman of the bilateral Kazakh-Romanian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Petro Lifichiu noted the significant potential of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries and the openness of the Kazakh market to foreign capital, noting that "Kazakhstan can serve as an example of success by introducing an appropriate market economy."
absentee certificates for voting within the same settlement are not issued.
The library of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan hosts the final ceremony of the republican cultural and educational event "a thousand children" of the project of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
For 6 years, when the industrial zone "South" was opened, enterprises produced products worth 65.7 billion tenge, of which 17.5 billion tenge - last 2015.
the second exit poll was conducted by the media consul agency.
Polls received more than a thousand voters.
because everything is important in this document.
Recall that the 29th session of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan is taking place in the capital.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the audience success and well-being.
the main directions of the economic zone are the development of chemical, petrochemical and non-ferrous metallurgy.
According to the Chairman of the meeting, Poland is an important political and economic partner of Kazakhstan in central and eastern Europe.
its composition included a full section of the political and social forces of the commonwealth.
Thanks to the memorandum, the fund of the first president will help attract international experts in culture, art, history, master classes, "he said.
We hope that this will be supported not only in our environment, but also abroad, "said A. Ermenbaev.
the transformation program, as well as the privatization program, the creation of an international financial center in the capital require accelerating the corporate governance of Kazakhstani companies. the program of transformation , as well as a large privatization program , the creation of an international financial center require a reduction and improvement of corporate management of companies in accordance with international best practices .
On the eve of the Day of the First President, you voiced a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan in a new global reality: growth, reform, development."
we cooperate with them in preventing offenses, helping those who are subjected to domestic violence, "he said.
399 metropolitan schoolchildren took part in international olympiads and scientific competitions, winning 238 medals, and in 2014 the number of prizes was 148.
We are grateful for the close relations between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia, "said E. Dyrissov.
Last year, in order to implement the Plan of the Nation, all basic laws were adopted. last year , all the new laws are aimed at the implementation of the national plan .
today we are a step away from 25 years of our sovereignty.
any project should have an alternative.
During the meeting, the issues of forming a professional state apparatus, ensuring the rule of law and economic growth of the country were discussed.
many countries cannot realize this dynamic. few countries have been able to carry out a real breakthrough .
my world. XXI century. "
this decision of Nursultan Abishevich will have a positive impact on the Kazakh economy, "said Andrash Barani.
Main objective of a visit - explanation and promotion of the national idea "The m g_l_k ate".
they are produced by souvenir packaging and are equipped with a number certificate of quality of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the state, Russian and English languages.
We propose that the Egyptian side create a joint venture for the production of drugs in our country, "the head of state said.
this makes us an important and integral partner of the global fatf network.
According to the head of the district construction department, several workshops, a wide library, a gym, a dining room, and comfortable study rooms will appear in the building of the new school.
According to the head of the board of the airport management group, the construction of this plant can be a unique project that has no analogues in Kazakhstan, as well as central Asia, implementing new technologies and the idea of ​ ​ a "green airport" for the airport of the capital.
Our Kazakhstan is a country of the great steppe, a country of the modernized great steppe. every ethnic group is our heritage .
among the laureates of the prize are Vladimir Putin, the Jorez of the Alphers, the Eugene of the Primaks, the Yuri Osipov, the Patriarch of Moscow and Russian Alexy, the Patriarch of Serbia, the Patriarch of Serbia Irenaeus, the Emir of Kusturica, novak djokovic, jean-Christoph buison and other celebrities.
there are no such facts, but we must work preventatively. there are no facts , but we need to conduct preventive work .
contraceptives, painkillers, anti-inflammatory, antihistamines, antihypertensive drugs, eye and ear drops, vitamins and others.
business communication is the organization of exchange of experience of our entrepreneurs with the best foreign partners. business ties - an organization of departure of our entrepreneurs abroad to obtain the best foreign experience .
As the minister noted, the population is growing, and pressure on school infrastructure is also growing.
Also, the Minister of Education and Science took part in the forum "Ensuring the quality, accreditation and future of management knowledge" at the National Economic University.
On the new Su-30cm aircraft, the Commander-in-Chief of the Air Defense Forces, Lieutenant General of Aviation Nurlan Ormanbets, together with Colonel Kurat Baymakhan, performed a complex of aerobatics figures, that is, a "nester loop," "barrel," "turn" and "combat turn."
He advised that he would live well, honest.
this production is provided for reducing the cost of products and creating new jobs.
myrzakhmetov askar isabekovich
One of the main tasks of EXPO-2017 is to establish cooperation with major international companies.
The ceremony was attended by representatives of state bodies, diplomatic corps, science and education, parks, prominent public figures, rectors of Kazakh and foreign universities, university graduates, students.
in the company's development strategy there is also the development of innovation. the company 's development strategy is innovation .
this unity of our people.
I thank the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan for the implementation of the normative framework of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
Iran will present Kazakhstan's investment opportunities and state support measures for foreign investors.
In particular, 56,647 tons of rice were processed, thanks to the projects of "island salt" of white and "rza," the production of iodized salt increased by 14.3%, processed milk - by 94.4%.
Today, the Hermitage pays great attention to modern art and joint work will be carried out in this area, "said the Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan.
on operational issues (The former Yugoslav Macedonian Republic)
According to the expert, when approaching the economic component, Kazakhstan well manages the national fund and uses oil revenues in the optimal direction in the development of the country.
among them are members and veterans of the assembly, members of republican and regional ethnocultural organizations, deputies of parliament, heads of central executive bodies, political parties, regional associations, religious organizations, university rectors, diplomatic workers of foreign states, representatives of scientific, creative and garden organizations.
this is an initiative to create a Kazakh khanate.
speculation on the subject was unfounded.
Turkey this year may reduce prices for Kazakh tourists, "he said.
It was right to vote on the names, "said the Wimmer.
this is the formation of a reporting, transparent state, the formation of a professional state apparatus, the development of public control, and the strengthening of stability in society.
As Zagipa Balieva noted, in our country it is very important to solve issues related to the rights of children, listen to their provisions and help in every possible way.
we thank them.
we are now exploring opportunities and prospects for further cooperation. now we are looking forward and study the opportunities and prospects for further cooperation .
while I am engaged in other projects.
this is a technical solution, because we live in new economic conditions. in terms of global economic crisis , falling energy prices .
The agenda was attended by Chairman of the Senate Committee on Security and Defense, International Relations ikram Aydyrbekov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbaev, Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhans.
in the previous two months alone, 1,660 vehicles were carried out.
Finally, we must resolve military disputes.
we will expand our current airport.
Currently, the subsidiary "Kazakhstan Engineering" uk "gi" hydraulic appliance "designs and begins production of equipment with white satellite navigation systems.
b. the importance of the development of the trans-Caspian international transport direction and the geography of the participants discuss the involvement of projects in China, South Asia, Central Asia, the Caucasus and Europe.
In addition, about 50 investment projects for potential investors are presented at the exhibition.
the events of recent years lead primarily to simple human security issues.
sending to the water of the Alatau raid tractor, replenishing the equipment of the naval forces of Kazakhstan.
on behalf of all Kazakhstanis, I wish the Uzbek people success and prosperity, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
according to our plan, their implementation will begin next year.
At the moment my main goal - to become the world champion in free-style wrestling. at the moment my main goal - to become a world champion in freestyle wrestling .
The participants of the meeting exchanged views on jointly implemented projects to support small and medium-sized businesses, and also discussed the possibilities of bilateral investment cooperation in the field of renewable energy.
the document contains more than 70 proposals at the global, regional and national levels, justified five mutual components: prevention, principled leadership and effective institutions, protection of human rights, paired inclusion and participation.
Last year, I presented diplomas to the pioneers of Nazarbayev University. last year i handed diplomas to the first graduates of our university .
importance of cooperation in military scale consists in participation of the International Committee of the Red Cross in exercises "unshakable brotherhood" and also as the observer in the doctrine "interaction".
according to him, the elections on democratic institutions and human rights will consist of 286 offices of observation missions of two, 301 CIS observation missions, 9th mission, 14th parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, 17th Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking countries, 3rd organization of Islamic cooperation, 8th parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries.
The purpose of the law is to establish long-term cooperation between the public and private sectors.
nadloc National Agency for the Development of Local Content. "
the purpose of the contest is simple. the aims of the competition are simple .
In Kazakhstan, social spending in 2016 will amount to 2,998 billion tenge, including an additional 124.5 billion tenge. it is predicted that the budget deficit will increase from 723.4 billion tenge to 902.7 billion tenge , or from 1.6 % to 2.0 % of gdp .
I always support the initiatives of deputies.
there is also agricultural, forestry, hydropower potential.
According to him, since the beginning of the year, more than 500 investors have received services in one window for investors.
During the round table, the main issues of eurozone development and improvement of the economic situation in the EAEU countries were discussed.
At the same time, as the expert of the department noted, the legislation of Kazakhstan complies with all international agreements.
in Kazakhstan, according to garden legislation, all Internet networks are considered the media.
we heard all relevant questions and took the question of obtaining a personal seal. we have reviewed all the relevant issues and problems .
we have a high spirit, "said the head of state.
and most importantly, we have learned to dream in a new way, set specific tasks and solve them in the development of the country and society, despite the difficulties in the global world, which are part of our independent Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan condemns all manifestations of terrorism and stands in solidarity with the troubles of the Belgian people. kazakhstan condemns all forms and manifestations of terrorism and mourns together with the belgian people .
The factory for the production of freight and passenger electric locomotives was built using the technology of the French company alstom transport, which was implemented as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development for 2010-2014.
Note that for 11 months of 2015 year in the region the number of cattle increased compared to the same period last year by 1.1%, sheep and goats - by 1,, 2%, horses - by 2.1%, camels - by 3.4%, pigs - by 10.4%.
Speaking during the meeting, Director of the Institute of World Economy and Politics S. Akimbekov reported on the results of the meeting of the Astana club held in November this year in the Nazarbayev center.
the head of state signed the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Republican Budget for 2015-2017, "aimed at clarifying the socio-economic macroeconomic indicators of the state.
For example, today in the capital about 40 thousand children attend kindergartens and study more than 117 thousand schoolchildren.
a system of targeted social assistance.
this policy consists in friendship between the two countries.
I took part in the opening ceremony of the polling station, "he said.
the parties discussed possible areas of cooperation.
Recall that today Kazakhstan celebrates Independence Day.
I took this document and outlined the most important.
this message of the president is a form of further progress.
This year, more than 200 companies from 25 countries of the world came to participate in this conference and exhibition.
before the concert, a video film about President Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented to the guests.
a criminal offence project is being implemented.
In 1995-1996, there was experience that resumed this year.
He noted that the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy consists of practical elements of a global organization to achieve such priorities as industrialization, attracting new technologies, job creation and social development.
Unfortunately, economic issues have arrived in our region and in Afghanistan are now the main source of instability, and they are our immediate neighbours.
72.3% have higher education.
At the end of the meeting, Danial Akhmetov congratulated the director and head coach of the Torpedo club on the upcoming New Year, wished success, success and new victories.
all indicators will continue next year.
international organizations, observers, representatives of political parties.
Thus, it is planned to improve teaching methods in educational institutions of Kazakhstan, to promote the development of the sergeant corps.
The Government is tasked with formulating proposals to streamline the new social policy and social security system.
The President of Kazakhstan also talked with representatives of the labor collective and medical workers of the region.
in Kazakhstan - a project of a plant for the production of calcium soda 400.0 thousand tons per year.
we do not pursue the rating, but this indicator stimulates further development, "he said.
We are confident that this cooperation will be beneficial to both parties, "said the executive director of cefc jiang jiangjun.
in Australia, the expo was held several years ago. australia hosted expo few years ago .
this is transport, this is logistics, this is tourism.
production for 600.0 million tenge per year.
the majority, even negative Kazakhstanis, voted for a party that gets rid of its fragile ambitions and leads to the future, is responsible for the future of our families and children, for the future of Kazakhstan is the first sign of homogeneity, "said A. Bashmakov.
for this purpose, explanatory seminars, trainings, and various methodological guidelines were organized. there are seminars , training sessions , manuals .
the main task of the train is to solve social issues on the spot.
He noted that today the international community is experiencing a systemic crisis that has occurred throughout the world.
In accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 12 observers from the commonwealth of independent states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the principle of non-proliferation of international law, "- said T. Kuchera.
thanks to our joint work, we live in the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Union has been created. due to our joint work , the cis is functioning today and the eurasian economic union has been established .
the experience of previous world exhibitions shows that holding the Expo will increase the economic effect and income of hotels, restaurants, places of rest, "said Rapil Zhoshybayev, Commissioner of EXPO-2017.
As part of the second five-year plan, 24 projects worth 1 trillion tenge are planned, which will provide 5817 jobs, "the akim said.
party members noted that "Kazakhstan should not only rejoice in the success achieved, but also constantly work on the development of the economy and the commodity market."
According to him, this year enterprises of the non-state sector took part in the competition.
according to him, this program consists of three main components: training, support and provision of services, assistance in finding financial resources to open their own business.
this is an update of the Shymkent oil refinery (Petrokazakhstan oil products LLP, pkop), the white Kazmunaigaz project and the technological equipment of the Shardarin hydroelectric power station, the white samruk-energo project.
iidmb, bright path "and expo-2017, which will be continued," the report said.
that's 10-415% of our state.
and three main areas.
The event was attended by Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev, British Ambassador Carolyn Brown, Deputy Director of ecdb agris premanis.
the second section tells about the history of the entry of independent Kazakhstan into world political relations. the second part tells the story of the entry of independent kazakhstan in the global political relations .
state symbols had to not only meet aesthetic requirements, but also receive historical, political, economic meaning with them.
smart technologies, artificial intelligence, integration of cyber physical systems, future energy, design and engineering.
ability to be educated, hardworking, initiative, active.
According to the ambassador, holding the EXPO-2017 exhibition is a chance to step forward.
According to the terms of the program of entrepreneurs, in the turnover, public food and services, work is underway to obtain loans in the amount of 180 million tenge for a period of up to 7 years. the programme allows entrepreneurs operating in trade , catering and services to get a loan of maximum kzt 180 million , with a term up to 7 years for working capital up to 3 years .
The company's brand of the same name is patented today, and we actively participate in exhibitions with our products not only in Kazakhstan, but also abroad, "said the director of Aigul Line.
work is underway to modernize Kazakh museums and the system of using state symbols.
Work in Aea has not been stopped.
N.Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan does not experience general consumption in the wake of economic stimulus.
Tokayev informed A.al-kubeisi about the activities of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and legislative support for five institutional reforms of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
preparations for the elections are proceeding smoothly. preparations are on the schedule .
you have a very correct direction. your country is on the right track .
Parliament, the Government and the National Modernization Commission must therefore work clearly and harmoniously.
The Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented the order on behalf of the country at the reception on Independence Day. it was an ambassador of kazakhstan galymzhan koishybayev who handed the award on behalf of the leadership of the country .
politics is always an opportunity for art. politics is the art of the possible .
our support - independence, desire - stability, skill - unity!
lawyers have repeatedly put forward proposals on important legal issues for the fair election of representatives of the republican public association.
today we accept all small and medium-sized enterprises, "he said.
cooperation as a new direction for the development of the tourism industry, since it creates favorable conditions for the development of the national economy and the creation of new jobs, "said A. Issekeshev.
the first is the digital silk road, providing an Internet network in rural areas and developing transit potential in Kazakhstan. the first is the digital silk road , providing support and bringing the internet to the rural areas and development of transit potential of kazakhstan .
exposition presents new innovations, development, technologies, equipment and chemistry for weaving; industrial and environmental safety at work; geology; also engineering, financial, audit companies and others.
vi The republican winter student universiade is dedicated to the 25th anniversary of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
For example, thanks to this day and a new stage in the history of the development of our state, I managed to get an education in the West, which I did not even dream of in Soviet times.
On the basis of the agreement of the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and Eurochem-fertilizer LLP in 2013-2015, under the social partnership program, the repair of 12 social facilities in the city of Zhanatas was carried out in the amount of 1,548,6 million tenge.
Since the union of lawyers is located throughout the republic, we can monitor, explain laws in the regions, solve controversial situations, "he said.
a group of voters is active in Kazakhstan. kazakhstan has a very active electorate .
In turn, Director of State Administration and Territorial Development Aidu noted that Kazakhstan and Eidu were able to closely cooperate.
I came here at the invitation of the CEC of the Republic of Kazakhstan and got acquainted with the organization of elections, technical issues, "he said.
Today it is recognized in all countries and the international community, "said the Vice Minister for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan.
in addition, you can see an image of a red tiger and elements of algae, carpets, wallpaper.
the volume of bilateral economic relations is much lower, this is the export of metal products and wheat, "he added.
The conference will discuss the development of transboundary and regional cooperation in the field of forestry, the implementation of joint programs and projects and scientific research.
our independence and policy of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev favorably affect the preservation of peace and harmony between all faiths and ethnic groups in our country - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the funds provided from the republican budget and returned from the lease will allow introducing the necessary volumes, "he said.
The Supreme Court has created an international council to feel the global role, "said M. Bire.
He noted that state programs are provided for small and medium-sized businesses.
among its participants is the famous Kazakh artist, honorary ambassador of the atomic project.
Today, demand for clean environmental products is growing in the world, "said the chairman of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan.
Sergey met with students of the children's mini-center throughout the city with a bright brilliance.
According to M. Tleuzhanov, in 2015, Mining Gold transported more than 10 tons of gold to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, and in 2016 plans to release 14 tons of pure gold standard ingots.
This coupon service will be implemented in well-developed cities of Almaty, the capital, Karaganda and Aktobe.
Currently, the Kazakh Research Institute of Culture is working on a draft application for a competition to the Global Environment Facility (GEF). currently , the kazakhstan research institute is working on a project to include tamgaly district into the global environment facility ( gef ) .
so, in 2011 z. Shaukenova was awarded the award "Honored Worker of Kazakhstan" and the badges "20 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan," "10 years in the capital" in 2008 and "20 years of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
Compared to 2014, the growth was 5.9%.
We cannot survive such a world crisis unless we keep the country calm.
the exhibition consists of two sections.
the bulk of them earned from January 1, 2016.
1.5 times growth, "said A. Tuleshov.
During the meeting with the Turkmen Commissioner, issues of further cooperation and technical issues within the framework of EXPO-2017 were discussed.
deputies should work with all party organizations, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
in mining and quarrying, production decreased by 1.5%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 0.7%, in water supply, sewage system, control over the collection and distribution of waste - by 5.5%, "the report said.
eidu standards are consistently implemented. the oecd standards are implemented consistently .
I instruct the government to make proposals for the optimization of the social security system within three months.
Representatives of diplomatic missions of India, Indonesia, Czech Republic, Germany, Finland, Norway and Sweden also arrived in Aktobe region.
In general, the parties noted that despite the current state of the world economy, trade and economic cooperation is developing at a steady pace, and the implementation of Kazakhstan's current infrastructure plans makes its corresponding contribution to strengthening bilateral relations between our countries.
in many ways, we raise issues of economic, trade, technological cooperation, it is very expedient, the Eurasian Economic Union was born as a result of the idea of ​ ​ Nursultan Nazarbayev. we often raise the issue of economic , trade and technological cooperation , and it 's right .
Director General of the World Trade Organization Robert Azeved, President of the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of Suma Chakrabarti, founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the alibaba group, a video message will be made by the Director of the International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde.
The capital is interested in holding an EXPO.	according to him , astana aroused great interest among americans , including in connection with the exhibition  expo " in 2017 .
also, according to the diplomat, "India is seriously considering joining the Eurasian Economic Union, that is, signing an agreement on a free trade zone with eo."
To date, our precinct has registered 2 candidates. as of today , our web-site has registered two candidates .
The Prime Minister of the Netherlands also noted that the grand opening of the Capital Square in Rotterdam in November is a vivid evidence of the strengthening of friendly relations between our countries.
- Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the V convocation, Chairman of the Council for the Construction of Talgat Ergaliyev in Kazakhstan;
In alliance with a strong investor, using KMG as a combined platform for business development, the company can move forward significantly, "said the head of KMG. Mynbaev.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on today's holiday.
The project will be implemented within the framework of the agreement between the Government of Kazakhstan and China, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
the aim of the project is to improve the quality of life in the regions of Kazakhstan and contribute to the balance of regional development.
Today we are an example for representatives of the intelligentsia and all our youth, "the head of state said.
eidu together with international experts are developing a code on subsoil and subsoil use. "
He noted that the revenues of the district budget amounted to 317.8 million tenge, medium-term wages increased by 7.3%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin discussed topical issues of bilateral and regional cooperation, including the upcoming meeting of the heads of states of the Eurasian Economic Union in May in the capital.
they trust party chairman Nursultan Nazarbayev.
western transit. "
The head of the Turkish government also conveyed a greeting to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
according to the speaker of the Senate, if the conflict increases, the role of religious leaders, peace, security, cooperation will be strengthened.
During the meeting after the signing ceremony, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Slovak Republic to Kazakhstan discussed the state and current issues of development of Kazakh-Slovak cooperation.
This year, work on promoting employment will continue in the region according to a comprehensive plan, the department noted.
In general, after the designed industrial zones, it is planned to replenish projects and attract investments, "he said.
The second half of 2016 was very important and productive for the meeting. the second half of 2015 was very eventful and fruitful for the majilis .
According to the information center Aktobe, the act is only one ktl.
there is a lot of work to be done, "said D. Nazarbayev.
in the competition program, a paramilitary relay race, power exercises, as well as presidential tests (shooting with an air rifle, running 100 meters, long jumping from a place, pulling up on a belt, swimming 50 meters, running 3,000 meters, muscles from the floor).
The agreement provides for parties to the trade sequence between the two parties, provides for technical, sanitary parties on the basis of close cooperation between customs services and state authorities. the agreement provides a preliminary mutual notification of the parties about the changes in trade regulation , lays the basis for close cooperation between the customs services and government agencies responsible for the technical , sanitary regulation .
we want any conflict to be resolved peacefully and to do everything possible.
part of the facilities goes into public utilities for citizens.
he also noted the great contribution of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev to ensuring international and regional security.
According to the report, in accordance with the Nұrly zhol infrastructure development program, a large-scale reconstruction of the highway is being carried out in 2016.
Recall that the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the largest museum in the country.
bakytzhan sagintayev proposed to establish scientific and academic cooperation between the university and the "Nazarbayev University," where it is planned to create a Eurasian center for the study of China.
He noted that the declaration adopted by the congress participants is a document that strengthens mutual understanding between the world religions of Kazakhstan.
The founders allocated 922,300,000 tenge for the opening of more than 60 private kindergartens.
The parties agreed that EXPO-2017 will be the best platform for Singaporean development and demonstration of technologies in the field of green energy.
Within the framework of this bill, participation in the national standardization system in accordance with the international system, the development of cooperation between participants in the national standardization system, as well as the strengthening of the role of technical standardization committees are projected.
we must preserve and develop these relations, "the president said.
pit repair in 2016 - 25,893 m2; elimination of the gauge and the poor - 28,000 m2; installation of signal columns - 854 units; replacement and installation of road signs - 362 units; replacement and installation of panels - 12 units; installation and repair of iron fences - 6,714 bp; lane marking on the road surface - 350 km; repair of autopaviglions - 4 units, "- said K.Karibaev.
In October of this year, the British Prime Minister became one of David Cameron's business consultants.
in particular, management, medical and information technologies, equipping hospitals, clinics and perinatal centers.
over the years of independence, a powerful growth platform has been created. over the years of independence kazakhstan has created a strong platform for the growth .
you are cohesion, creation and stability in our society, "the head of state said.
The interlocutors discussed issues of parity in the region, economic cooperation, countering transnational threats, as well as preparations for the international exhibition Expo-2017.
this is particularly important in times of economic crisis.
we and the younger generation will witness a completely different structure of the economy. we and the younger generation will witness absolutely different form of the economy .
The President of the Czech Republic expressed confidence that traditional friendly relations between the two countries will deepen in all areas where there is mutual interest.
they are produced by souvenir packaging and are equipped with a number certificate of quality of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the state, Russian and English languages.
assistance in obtaining, subsidizing and guaranteeing funds by the State.
Within the framework of the above program, 26 scientific projects will be implemented in six areas, in particular: the development of technologies for ground-space geodynamic monitoring of the regions of Kazakhstan; Development of techniques and technologies for remote sensing-based atmospheric and surface research; development of materials, tools, components, hardware and software and a subsystem of space technology; development of methods of exploration of outer space objects using information technologies; the development of methods for the exploration of near space using information technologies; Development of an environmental risk assessment system for space rocket activities and methods to minimize their negative impact on the environment and public health.
I want to tell you today that the government is doing a lot of work in this direction with our partners, employees and the trade union.
Kazakhstan has recently done much for gender equality. kazakhstan has done a lot of work for gender equality .
therefore, it is necessary to tighten the requirements for all the first leaders, "said D. Nazarbayev.
the president set great tasks for legislative provision and execution of the message. the president has instructed to ensure the legislation and implementation of the address .
From the business delegations of the Spaniards came more than 20 companies that are interested in cooperation in the framework of investments, transport technologies and public-private partnerships, as well as in construction, renewable energy, transport, infrastructure facilities, telecommunications, agriculture.
According to the Senate, the protocol concluded in Pavlodar on September 19, 2012 provides for the deletion of articles 12 and 14 of the above agreement.
For our economy to be order, stability, a new force, a new approach is definitely needed.
2015 became quite difficult for the economy of Pavlodar region. region 's economy revived .
In 2014-2015, Kazakhstan was in conflict in its mining industries. in 2014-2015 kazakhstan had already faced with the high cost of extraction of minerals in their fields .
in the future it is planned to conduct training seminars in all areas. next we have scheduled training seminars in all districts .
The meeting is attended by more than 30 Indian companies that work in the field of engineering, construction, logistics, it-technologies, agricultural equipment, petrochemicals, formaceutics, medicine and are interested in a trade and economic network with Indian partners of 40 Kazakhstani companies.
We are confident that new people, new ideas and new proposals will come to our composition. "
During the meeting, issues of strengthening the global nuclear security regime and its non-proliferation were discussed.
I instruct the government together with akimat to ensure uninterrupted operation of the indernet in all schools. i instruct the government to ensure the smooth operation of the internet in all schools together with akimats .
Yesterday Nursultan Nazarbayev met with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
The project has been implemented since 2015 as part of the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019.
in the North Kazakhstan region its value was 88.8 thousand tenge, which is 33.1% lower than the national average.
Therefore, I proposed to create a united Eurasian economic space, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
religion is one of the most important and influential social institutions aimed at strengthening national unity, intercultural, spiritual integration and preserving peace and peace in the world. religion is one of the most important and influential public institutions that promotes the strengthening of the national identity , development of the cross-cultural , spiritual integration , preservation of the peace and peaceful world .
During the meeting issues of development of cooperation on exchange of experience in the field of intellectual property were discussed.
the pilot launch of the first phase will be launched in December this year.
Following the talks, the parties agreed to continue the dialogue on bilateral cooperation.
We increased construction by 3-4%, "- said D. Akhmetov.
the hall presents materials reflecting the main directions of socio-economic and political development of modern Kazakhstan.
there are difficult times on the world stage, new conflicts are taking place, the terrorist threat and international tension are growing.
Within the framework of this project, investments are envisaged in the development of agriculture, tourism, logistics, roads and transport, education, and health.
Opening the meeting of the commission, Mr. Abdykalikova in her message "Kazakhstan in a new global situation: growth, reform, development" noted that investments in human development are a priority of state social policy.
The Serbian Foreign Minister thanked Kazakhstanis for their assistance in the adoption of a number of international decisions by Serbia.
Also in the nomination "Best Innovation Project" within the framework of the Presidential Special Gold Quality Award, Eltex Alatau LLP in Alma-Ata was created and awarded the Golden Quality Award.
new technologies were first introduced by Green Villas LLP and the Shenho peasant farm.
Such events will be held very often, "said the chief conductor of the orchestra.
electric locomotive plant is interested in the introduction of a common alstom system.
The launch of new equipment is a great resource and a powerful fund for the economy of the region, "said the Governor of Karaganda region.
this year it is planned to build modern dairy complexes of 2 4 thousand heads in Akzhar, Ayyrtau, Mamlut and M. Zhumabaev districts, "the head of the region noted.
we, Kazakhstanis, can be proud of another decisive step of our president. "
We propose to dispose of 100 land plots by July 1, "he said.
bakytzhan sagintayev and maurizio Martin also discussed the development of the republic's agricultural sector in the conditions of Kazakhstan's membership in the World Trade Organization (WTO).
Deputy Chairman of EXPO-2017 noted that Shormanov's ball is actively preparing for the exhibition.
that is, to indicate mandatory pension contributions of two years of work experience, "he said.
secondly, all conditions should be created for the restoration of economic growth, that is, income should be reinvested in the field of education, health and infrastructure.
Now everyone knows what the head of state will say last.
applications admitted to the competition for the convenience of participants can be submitted as an apk file (for applications for android )/as an ipa file (for applications for ios )/as a hap file (for applications for wp), or through mobile application distribution services (analogues of testflight).
we are actively pursuing further development and strengthening of cooperation with leading European countries. we actively support development and strengthening of the cooperation with leading countries of europe .
In addition, the exhibition "Kyzylorda Smart City" and the exhibition of investment projects will be held for guests.
- Chairman of Ekibastuz Electric Network, Deputy Chairman of the Berlan Barlybaev Party;
Recall that in October 2015, the parliament adopted the law "On agricultural cooperatives."
This year, the year of the 25th anniversary of independence, we can say about our achievements.
Among the Kazakh participants participating in Kadex-2016 is Kae LLP, which performs the tasks of the defense industry of Kazakhstan, which is engaged in the modernization of armored vehicles and aircraft with the installation of electro-optical systems.
Dossayev, Vice President of Baiterek Holding and Asian Development Bank discussed the prospects of cooperation with the wedding.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev made a new anti-crisis initiative at the enlarged meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan in the capital. at the government session in astana , nursultan nazarbayev sounded new anti-crisis initiatives .
We are glad that this exhibition takes place at the National Museum when the month begins, "said D. Minbay.
According to the Chairman of the World Bank Group on Justice for Europe and Central Asia, Amitabh Muherjee, the ambitions of the country's leadership are confirming the development program of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the land plot for construction amounted to 44.5 thousand hectares.
If the head of state accepts our appeal, the new composition of the meeting needs qualified economists who will quickly rise to the economic situation, "said T. Berdongar.
Ottaviani is ready for vegetable processing and the construction of a freezing plant.
- In what cases is Kazakhstan entitled not to carry out accreditation of observers?
One of them will be women's health, "the author noted.
In recent days, we met with many company leaders, engineers of the mining and metallurgical complex and shared our thoughts. recently , we have met with many heads of companies , many engineers of mining and metallurgical complex , exchanged views .
they will provide reliable and reliable information, are well versed in foreign languages ​ ​ and so on, "said the representative of the Astana Convention Bureau of Ainur Zhanabilov.
Recall that March 2, 2016 marks the 24th anniversary of Kazakhstan becoming a permanent member of the UN.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs thanked the Iranian side for supporting and signing the agreement on the participation of this country in EXPO-2017 in the capital.
in just 14 days, doctors of the Soviet-diagnostic train "Healthy Kazakhstan" examined 1,578 residents of 9 stations in the Karaganda region, of which 337 were children.
In addition, the delegation visited the National Defense University named after the first president - the leader of the Republic of Kazakhstan in preparation for the international military-scientific conference planned in April "Comprehensive provision of a coalition grouping of troops (forces) in the preparation and conduct of joint operations (military operations)."
In 2015, the volume of investments in agriculture in North Kazakhstan region amounted to 17 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan is moving towards green "technology, in this regard there are a number of important indicators.
it is now necessary to change the format of working with voters. the time , when we need to change the way we work , has come .
we are not alone in overcoming difficulties.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan actively cooperates with eidu and last year a special program was signed.
The tenth anniversary of the council takes place in difficult conditions of growing international tension and instability, on the principles of the foundation of international law.
Therefore, the "Give the National Museum" action is a unique event in support of national ideology, including the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
Also, the director of Agrofirma Alash LLP noted the work of the enterprise in connection with the new economic situation.
most of them are valid from January 1, 2016.
Currently, 504 people have returned to their homes, 437 were housed in relatives' houses, 28 in evacuation points, "he said.
As a result, the intervention of the national bank in February amounted to $474 million, or 20% of the total trade - $2.4 billion.
The basis for this will be powerful research universities and innovative clusters formed in the base of the hightec park of Nazarbayev University "capital business campus" and the Almaty technology park "alatau."
at that time, the Senate performed its work at a high level.
For us, the main goal is to localize products. the first task for us is the localization of production .
the theme of the exhibition is called "energy of the future."
the government should ensure effective tax administration, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Today, the global systemic crisis covers all countries of the world, even the leading developed countries. nowadays the global systemic crisis has affected all countries , even the developed leading states .
Think over the past 5 years, like the world, the capital as a city, the surrounding university, and you've changed.
the first master class was conducted by a political and economic consultant from the UK simon anholt.
Y. Ashchikbayev also noted that our country supports all initiatives and the role of Kazakhstan in providing assistance to the CIS countries.
I wish you good health, happiness, great success! "-he said.
Spain is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan in Europe. spain is one of the key strategic partners of kazakhstan in europe .
In particular, at the end of last year, a budget law was adopted, "said Shotanov.
A. Tulebayev noted that our state is reaching a new stage of development, therefore, thoughtful transformations contribute to the realization of the economic and political situation.
one at the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi, the second at the Kazakh National Technical Research University named after K. Satpayev.
The program of the museum project includes a discussion of topical issues in the development of museum spheres within the framework of such international museum projects as lectures, seminars, master classes, meetings, joint activities with the International Council of Museums, as well as a virtual exhibition about the world-famous hermitage.
The meeting was attended by Deputy Chairman of the Senate Asar Beissenbayev, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Defense and Security and the representatives of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Sports, the International Center for Cultures and Religions, other institutions.
Can the first half of the 1990s, when we declared our independence, be favorable to us?
if we do not find compliance with the rules, then we will exclude from the party list. "
According to him, all considered measures are taken, an organizational meeting of the commission is held, all issues are resolved.
Of course, today in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the main direction is to attract foreign investment, work on the implementation of industrial and innovative projects, the Nұrly Zhol program.
that is, the production of advertising and image videos, types of photo/video services and web design, the development of site design and work in all social networks.
It is worth noting that agitation is actively underway in the capital, "said A. Nosirov.
The Minister also added to this series of obligations adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the right in force by national legislation in relation to international agreements and decisions of international organizations.
In 2017, as part of the implementation of the state program in 2011-2020. to provide preschool education and training, it is planned to open 1,500 new preschool places. Tanatovna.
we must find new points of internal growth through the development of private initiatives. " Nazarbayev.
the meeting was attended by the Chairman of the Council, former Federal Chancellor of Austria A. Guzenbauer, former President of Poland A. Vasniewski, former President of the European Commission, former Prime Minister of Italy Prodi, former Prime Minister of Israel, etc.
9 astronauts around the world worked, as in one dozen.
we checked the state of the polling stations before the election. we have checked the polling stations before the elections .
Today, Kazakhstan needs to consolidate the company in the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 and Nұrly zhol programs in the context of the global and financial crisis.
berdybek saparbayev proposed to consider the possibility of signing long-term contracts for the supply of products with local manufacturers, such as Caspian Plus LLP (supply of attachment parts), Technodom ctkz LLP (supply of trailed wheeled equipment) and Saylan Aktobe LLP (supply of pigment dyes and chromium concentrates).
Today Kazakhstan is part of the world community. being a part of the global community , kazakhstan has faced an economic crisis .
The president did not just say about social assistance to socially vulnerable residents. president drew attention to the social support for vulnerable people .
the Internet portal "Map of criminal offenses" will also be created.
Therefore, Kazakhstan can experience these difficulties, "said B. Teushanov.
The new workshop, which complies with international gmp standards, is the modernized top production in Central Asia.
I, a scientist, as the chairman of a scientific organization, believe that all modern technologies should serve the good of mankind. "
The security and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is a platform for our cooperation. security and non-proliferation form a basis for our cooperation .
Despite the global challenges, we see investor interest in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
the head of state pays special attention to the field of education.
Turkish investors are also interested in the project.
the beam road is the answer to the tests.
"By raising our children, we form the potential of the future of our state, which will participate in the development of the country, increase the successes and achievements of our homeland."
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 informed that 100 countries and 15 international organizations are ready to take part in the exhibition, to date 85 countries and 15 international organizations will officially take part.
It should be noted that during the seminar, lectures and trainings with Kazakh and foreign scientists, experiments will be held: responsible employees of the secretariat of the kha, the presidential administration, the science committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international experts "public consent" under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "kha" and others.
The total cost of these memoranda is about 28.1 billion tenge.
M. Esenbayev informed about the international exhibition "kadex" taking place in the capital, about the Kazakhstan defense products and the development of the Kazakhstan defense-production complex, and also familiarized with the oil and gas, transport, agricultural and energy sectors.
To date, projects of 22 entrepreneurs totaling 63.0 million tenge have been approved by the decision of the regional coordinating council.
Thus, this year, funding priorities for horse breeding, sheep breeding, pasture irrigation were determined, the company said.
The project that we need is aimed at helping children from orphanages and special Internet networks.
as well as wheat, bread, barley, jungle.
together with the Petropavlovsk enterprise Kazneftegazmash and the Kurgan corvette, they produce equipment for the oil and gas complex.
Recall that the group of white companies "Kazakhstan Engineering" specializes in the production, maintenance and manufacture of products for the defense, oil and gas, transport and energy sectors.
we attach great importance to the cooperation of the international exhibition bureau, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
We remind that holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital is one of the most important projects of Kazakhstan.
this holiday includes various games, dances.
The event was attended by public figures, kha members, historians, political scientists, sociologists.
galymzhan Telmanovich Koishybayev was dismissed from the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Finnish Republic, combining the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Estonian Republic.
The exercise involves about 100 units of special equipment, that is, bulldozers, loaders and excavators.
we have come a very long way, and today we can raise our heads and say that we are citizens of independent Kazakhstan, "said Deptutat.
therefore, in all respects there is a high cost of harmony and peace, we can overcome any difficulties, "the head of state said.
The session is held with the participation of representatives of business, state and expert community:
Also, 240 million 247 thousand tenge were allocated to regional institutions of culture and art to strengthen their material and technical base for quality cultural services of the population, "said the deputy head of the department.
The Asian Development Bank plans to raise an additional $200 million to support SMEs. through the asian development bank in 2016 it is planned to attract an additional $ 200 million to support smes .
only 100 people work in the Baiterek holding.
we appreciate our cooperation.
modernization of the blue-hilly tower is also expected.
if we work at such a pace, then in 5-10 days all work will be completed optimally, "said E. sultanov.
Today, the company provides its confectionery products in various regions of Kazakhstan, Semipalatinsk, the capital, Karaganda, plant cities and Pavlodar region and its regions.
this requires the establishment of a training centre with Canada, Germany, Australia and Singapore.
ratification of the agreement will contribute to the development of military-technical cooperation between the two states, as well as to the further strengthening of regional and collective security.
First Deputy Foreign Minister Marcelin during talks with the Medical Institute in April this year, during the official visit of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to Cuba, the issue of working on the implementation of the agreement was discussed.
Secretary of State of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova noted that the main directions outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the state program "Nұrly zhol," the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" will be accompanied by the goals of sustainable development of the United Nations and the 5-year action program of the UN Secretary General.
expands the productive line of commercial equipment tellus commerce and improves the company for the production of the turner Savvin LLP.
at least 70% of respondents have stable wages, compared to 62% in Q3 2015.
It is worth noting that every year cycling is developing in Kazakhstan, the number of participants is growing.
In their speeches, Spanish partners noted political stability, a favorable investment climate, religious and ethnic tolerance of the population, and the rich cultural and historical heritage of Kazakhstan.
now many roads are being built at the expense of the state budget.
of these, 65 projects were approved in 2015 for a total of 12.6 billion tenge, in 2016 - 31 projects.
the second side of this issue is enterprises, companies that win these agreements and ignore our producers. and the other side of this issue - those enterprises , companies that win these contracts , then pass by our producers .
Currently, business lending is becoming especially relevant. currently , business lending is particularly relevant .
According to the chairman of the Association of Future Fellows, the authority of the free development of vocational equipment and labor specialties is aimed at the development of the country's economy.
Speaking about the universal declaration of peace at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, free of nuclear weapons, the Deputy Minister noted that the support of the majority of UN member states was an important step towards the adoption of a legally binding international instrument to ban nuclear weapons.
artistic director of the ballet collective of Astana, Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alila Alisheva, director of the Gorky Russian Drama Theater in Astana, Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan free kasenov and writer, playwright of the musk rose was awarded the honorary badge "For merit in the development of culture and art."
The state program of forced industrial and innovative development has prepared people's economic mechanisms and developed socio-economic methods for Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization.
I appreciate women's financial work. "
Those with a special quality mark are published on the friendly international information portal and on its Chinese resource.
we needed to accumulate the necessary amount of funds to diversify our economy, we did so.
in particular, on attracting investments in infrastructure projects, in the field of agricultural processing and tourism of the region.
coins and banknotes are the "appearance" of the state, the "national brand," thanks to which the identification of the state takes place, acquaintance with its history, culture of the people, national traditions and traditions.
Congratulations from the head of state were received by artists, librarians, singers, club and museum workers, the information center "Current Information" reported.
We show the whole world that the energy of the future is a renewable source of energy, and the whole world listens to this, "he said.
The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Economy, together with the national bank, need to develop a plan, "said K. Maxim.
It considered 34 problematic issues of business entities, of which 28 made optimal solutions.
nominating candidates for the meeting and for maslikhats of all levels means that a new composition will come - lawyers, economists, scientists. "
The business ombudsman appreciated the development of business in the region.
we want to support you.
kakha inaishvili - electoral specialist (Georgia)
Herford seeds of cattle are economically grown.
The German parliamentarian, in turn, praised the party potential of Kazakhstan on the eve of the international special exhibition EXPO-2017, the report said.
The cost of investments in construction is expected to be 26.1 billion tenge.
- additional cost for extracurricular activities;
we also want to develop the investment component - the mobilization of joint entrepreneurs, the involvement of Indian companies in work in Kazakhstan. we also want to develop the investment component , to arrange joint ventures , to attract indian companies to operate on the territory of kazakhstan .
our common goal is to make Kazakhstan economically competitive. we have the same aim - to make kazakhstan more competitive economically .
The party list included representatives of 4 nationalities: Kazakh, Russian, Ukrainian and Ingush.
we are ready to participate in all events in Kazakhstan, that is, in foreign investments that develop relations between the two countries, "said Haisan Salah Kamel Ibrahim.
The conference was held in the format of plenary and two v2v sessions of practical sections, familiarization with investment projects of Kazakhstani companies with their export capabilities.
over the years, our meeting has become a good tradition, we hold meetings in different regions. over the years , we held meetings in different regions .
Recall that the international specialized exhibition expo will be held from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
In addition, the basic pension payment is established by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget for 2016-2018" in the amount of 11,965 tenge, the minimum pension is 25,824 tenge.
I hope that our joint projects will receive a new space and will be actively implemented in the new year, "said Anatoly Krasnikov.
the main achievement of the future is proper institutional development. the basis for successful movement to the future is the proper institutional development .
Today, the state is making great efforts to popularize this sport among youth, thanks to which Kazakhstan has achieved high results in the international arena, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
It is expected that 100 countries, more than 10 international organizations, 10 leading companies in the field of innovative technologies will take part in it.
The exhibition will be held in the Saryarka shopping center from November 30 to December 4, 2015.
jiao hongfeng thanked the Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan for hospitality and preparation for bilateral cooperation.
one of them is the youth wing, the theater, the youth club, "said R. Valenko.
From January 1, 2016, in accordance with subparagraph 4) of Article 11 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated November 30, 2015 No. 426-V "On the Republican Budget for 2016-2018," the size of the monthly calculation indicator is set at 2,121 tenge.
I think that Kazakhstan will be able to hold such a large-scale event, "he said.
therefore, I proposed the creation of a Eurasian economic space.
On behalf of the Austrian Embassy in Kazakhstan, we congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the New Year, "the congratulation received in strategy2050.kz says.
In addition, the forum plans to sign the first agreement on subcontract and industrial cooperation between white "castemirtrans" and "locomotive building" with the help of white "nadloc."
According to the Governor's Office, relations between the regions will be conducted in trade, economic, scientific, technological, humanitarian, law enforcement and other areas.
this day will be the day of Kazakhstan unity, brotherhood, "said A. Bashmakov.
Kazakhstan recognizes Slovakia as its reliable political and economic stable partner in the central-eastern European zone and the pan-European Union, as well as a friendly state.
in particular, Ambassador Aksh is scheduled to meet with K. Russell, Kazakh students studying under the future program.
On the Kazakh side the delegation was headed by Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, the Ministry reported.
this year marks 25 years of independence of Kazakhstan. this year we mark the 25th anniversary of independence .
an Azerbaijani family turned to us, people came to Kazakhstan and helped them find work. people come to kazakhstan , and we help them to find work , apartment .
the agricultural sector produces only 4.7% of the country's GDP, "he said.
Kazakhstan was elected the first head of the Almaty process.
The high level of dominance and priority of the private sector is the basis for the economic success of developed OECD countries. the high level of competition and the private sector - the basis of stable economic in the developed countries of the oecd .
As the Deputy Prime Minister noted, the main goal for today is to preserve peace and stability, our president constantly speaks about this.
participants of the exhibition will get acquainted with the ways of sewing and modeling clothes, as well as with the knowledge provided in the specialties "hairdressing and decorative cosmetics," "design," "catering," students in the nursing specialty will show their skills.
aiib is an international financial institution whose main goal is to support economic development, create wealth and mutually improve infrastructure in Asia through investment in infrastructure and other productive sectors.
we are watching every step of the nation's plan. we monitor every step of the national plan .
all the issues raised must be resolved as quickly as possible. all the issues raised should be possible to solve as quickly as possible .
train "Eternal Country" arrived in Mangistau region.
During the summit, the Secretary of State held a number of meetings with the heads of delegations who arrived to participate in the summit - Vice-President of Vietnam D. Thin, Minister for the Rights of the Family, Children and Women of France L. Rossignonl, Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Federal Ministry for Family, Elderly People, Women and Youth of Germany e.ferner.
this is the right step for the development of its special business, youth enterprises and stability and financial independence. it will be a practical and sure way for the development of our own business , youth entrepreneurship , gaining financial independence and stability .
The action "Green Country" with 200 thousand soldiers was a real feat, which over 10 years planted 50 million trees on an area of ​ ​ 115 thousand hectares.
The Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan told how much it will cost to hold elections, the holding of which will lead to double losses twice, "he said.
25 years of unity and creation, the concept of holding the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan was adopted.
on the significance of the patriotic act "eternal country," adopted at the session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan K.Masimov, head of the presidential administration took part in the meeting.
The head of state stressed that the White Way party should earn money in Kazakhstan, work in the country and work to strengthen the economy of the republic, based on its unified conceptual policy, implemented over many years.
According to the presidential decree, on February 1, 2016, an agreement on a loan in the amount of 1 million US dollars was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. in accordance with the decree of the president dated of february 1 , 2016 , a loan agreement between the republic of kazakhstan and the international bank for reconstruction and development in the amount of us $ 1 billion was signed .
vadim zhdanovich - specialist in political electoral affairs (Russian Federation)
among the supported projects are the plants of the LLP "high industrial lubricants & liguids corporation" for the regeneration of unconventional motor oils and braces (lubrication) and used oils in the republic.
In the future, the Capital International Financial Center will operate on the exhibition site.
as we know, within two months, society expresses concern about the elections, "said O. Selteev.
members of crirsco were sent invitations, in June we hope to become full members of kazrc crirsco, "said B. nurabayev.
the main activity of the enterprise is the production and sale of high-quality flour and pasta products under the trade marks "aliyah" and "country," as well as the acquisition, storage and export of Kazakh wheat.
I first come to Mangistau region. it is the first time i am in mangistau region .
in the region of 1.2 million sown areas, where it is possible to sow oilseeds, wheat, barley, millet, potatoes, vegetables and melons. the region has 1.2 million hectares of arable land to cultivate oilseeds , wheat , barley , millet , forage crops , potatoes , vegetables and melons .
It should be noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan from January 1, 2016 will increase the inflation rate by two percent.
As Chairman of the Council of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Aylai Myrzakhmetov noted, today in order to improve the work of the Business Council, a decision has been made to introduce the post of President of the Business Council.
they are not only real, but also integral, "said Vytautas nauduzhi.
we need a powerful, consolidated, functioning parliament. we need the strong , consolidated , working majilis .
In general, in Almaty region, within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," since the beginning of the year, a meeting of the regional coordinating council approved 43 projects worth 8 billion tenge.
I think that the new composition of parliament "should be in the interests of various social groups and ethnic groups."
including Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Russia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan.
We hope that our participation in the exhibition will expand interest in the business environment of Central Asia, "he said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our republic is the largest producer of uranium, striving to create a full production cycle in the world.
given our economic situation, favourable changes cannot be expected. taking into account the situation in the foreign economic area , we shouldn 't expect any favorable changes .
thirdly, elections to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan should be held now, unite public, managerial forces and prepare for the world crisis, "he said.
This discount will reduce the cost of participating in EXPO-2017, "he said.
as an international observer, he visited the polling station at Nazarbayev University.
B. Baybek got acquainted with the expositions of the exhibition participants and held a meeting on the development of the Atakent exhibition center.
The opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by representatives of the parliament and the government of the Czech Republic, diplomats, social activists, Czech journalists and cultural figures.
the delegation of Kazakhstan visited the Singapore petrochemicals and tourism cluster.
At the end of 2014, 2684 families received the keys to 264 apartments. in 2014 , we provided 264 apartments , the last year 2 684 people got housing .
Issues of partnership development in various spheres were discussed during the meeting.
As the First Deputy Prime Minister noted, now the economy of Kazakhstan is at an important stage of moving from the raw materials direction to the manufacturing sector.
within the framework of the conference, E. ashykbayev held a bilateral meeting with the foreign ministers of the Congo, Cameroon, Sierra Leone, the Minister of Trade of the Gambia, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sweden and other colleagues.
Currently, representatives of the company "rifa holding group" conducted an audit of Kazakhstan companies "aktobe" and "north agro-n" in Kostanay region and "archar watermelon" in Almaty region.
he expressed confidence that the activities of the honorary consulate will contribute to the expansion of trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian ties between the two states.
As we see, the economic essence allows you to work, and also puts forward requirements for the creation of active and new projects with clear goals for the future. new economic realities require us to establish clear objectives for the future , proactive and new projects .
The first priority in terms of the nation, the head of state set the formation of a professional state apparatus. head of state set the goal to form a professional state apparatus .
During the conversation, the head of state noted that the state is making efforts to support domestic production and increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstani goods in international markets.
in particular, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the important role of the company in the Kashagan field development project and also congratulated on the successful completion of the merger process with the bi ji group company.
In general, construction work has been completed, installation units have been installed.
the partnership between kmg and cefc is based on common goals aimed at creating a joint platform and developing the energy sector. cooperation between kmg and cefc is based on the common strategic objectives , aimed at the creation of a joint platform and implementation of strategic investments in the energy sector .
Ambassador of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia A. Workne noted that Ethiopia dominates Kazakhstan's foreign policy towards the African continent.
It should be noted that peacekeeping activities are of great importance for the state in fulfilling international obligations, promoting military-political positions, interests and the authority of our country on the world stage as a whole.
the parties discussed projects implemented with the support of the World Bank, as well as reforms aimed at improving the country's position in the doing business rating.
At the same time, we want to emphasize the successful sale of these assets, this is the preservation of state orders, including the national agency for technological development, "he said.
In total, there are 4 ice towns in the capital, which are located in front of the Sosko tent khan and the akimat, on the Yesil River and in the Students Park, the department said.
of them 24 polling stations in closed format, 13 - in medical institutions of the city, 2 - in a military unit, 1 - in a temporary detention center and 8 - in remote settlements, "- said A. Zhunusov.
in addition, military wheeled transport "Arlan" will be sent for export.
As a result of the event, all requests were sent to the presidential administration. " Alpeis.
Then registration is carried out, from February 20, election campaigning is held, "he said.
As you know, since last year in conditions of global unstable economic growth Kazakhstan economy has also slowed down significantly. as you know , last year in the context of global economic instability , the growth of kazakhstan 's economy slowed significantly due to lower prices of export products and the weakening of currencies of major trading partners .
in addition, he made expert forecasts about attending parliamentary meetings of a new political force and the prospects for the political development of Kazakhstan, Russian-Kazakh relations.
in Kazakhstan for this there are pastures, water, cheap labor.
The main priority of the state in social policy is to attract investments for the development of human capital, "he said.
Austria and Kazakhstan have begun cooperation. austria and kazakhstan began to cooperate as soon as kazakhstan became an independent state .
We wanted to surprise the children and rejoice. we wanted to please the guys , wanted them to smile .
All 25 years are filled with whole ideas and achievements.
The extraordinary XXIII session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held in the capital.
In 2015, under the "rash" program in the region, 4.5 thousand heads of cattle were purchased.
Within the framework of the meeting, T. Valova met with the leadership of the Ministry of Economy of Mexico, with representatives of the Mexican Business Council for Foreign Trade, the Promexica Foundation.
It is planned that in the next two days of the summit, the Secretary of State will hold bilateral meetings with the heads of delegations of Germany, France, Vietnam, Malaysia.
in general, during this period, the "prison population" decreased by 25% - from 52 to 40 thousand people.
therefore, the new document needs to be linked to what is happening in the republic, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
recently I was invited to the opening of the My Family Club in Alma-Ata.
In this regard, the head of state thanked the members of the government, all employees of the Prime Minister's office and central executive bodies for their dedicated work and contribution to the prosperity of our state.
During the meeting veterans shared their memories of the first meetings with the President of Kazakhstan.
in his opinion, N. Nazarbayev's article "The Plan of the Nation - the Way to the Kazakh Dream" pays great attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The Head of Government thanked the Chinese leader for the greeting of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the invitation on an official visit to China and congratulations on the independence day of Kazakhstan.
Today, projects produce products, "said B. Kamkulov.
This figure may increase several times this year.
in this economic policy, the idea of ​ ​ national development of Kazakhstan is also formed - the creation of a rich, strong, democratic, comprehensive, modern state, based on specific goals and objectives.
in this regard, President Nazarbayev noted that "peace. 21st century. "
the convergence of our economies takes place according to these plans and the given time. the convergence of our economies takes place in accordance with the plans and deadlines that have been identified .
today, international terrorism poses a serious threat to peace.
According to the press service of the museum, the goal of the heritage circle is to study the history of Kazakhstan and master excursion services.
citizens receive most of the socially significant services in the state corporation on the principle of "one window."
during the trip. Zhoshybayev met with Senior Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Singapore Muhammad Maliki Osman, President of the Singapore National Association of Devindero ori Tourist Agents, the leadership of the Ministry of Trade and Industry responsible for holding the exhibition in Singapore, as well as with the business environment of the country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
thirdly, large-scale work has begun to inform the population about the upcoming elections.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for further development of mutually beneficial cooperation within the framework of Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO.
in mining and quarrying, production decreased by 2.7%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 0.8%, in water supply, sewage system, control over collection and distribution of waste - by 5.8%.
In the framework of the plenary session, the heads of the foreign affairs departments of the European Union and Central Asia exchanged views on the most relevant issues of mutual interest, that is, updating the European Union strategy for central Asia, cooperation between the EU and Central Asia in the field of border management, education, economy, investment, environmental protection.
for the first time in Kazakhstan, the law "On Charity" was adopted.
In addition, during the meeting of the Business Council, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Keek and Ee Business Council.
A. Sekeshev informed that in 2005 $ 200 billion of foreign direct investment was attracted to Kazakhstan, of which $ 20 billion was attracted to the manufacturing sector.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, according to the results of the work, the volume of industrial products for 2010-2014 increased from 255.8 billion tenge to 604 billion tenge.
first of all, we are aimed at creating a leading public service.
members of the advisory committee discussed the provision for an international forum on "anti-counterfeiting."
Last year, the law "On subsoil and subsoil use" was amended accordingly.
the Attorney General's Office has done a great deal in this direction.
We took the 4-block division on the model.
Of course, there are issues that are not resolved.
work is carried out on the selection of international selection commissions. the works will be selected by an international selection committee .
two commissions were created in the public council. the members of the public council are working out the appeals from citizens .
The head of state drew attention to the need to increase the efficiency of using budget funds, attract foreign investment, and develop public-private partnerships.
According to the Chairman of the Federal National Assembly, Kazakhstan and Russia have developed special friendly relations and cooperation in trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian and other spheres.
most students are students of schools of science and technology, engineering, humanities and social, higher education, higher school of business, higher school of public policy.
the March area is in a favorable place, the Western Europe - Western China autobahn passes through this area. "
a year later, when the "Nұrly zhol" program was adopted, we can say that it justified itself.
According to S.Sapiev, sport is the image of the country, in this area there are also a number of issues to pay attention to.
Ye.Dyrissov congratulated people on the successful completion of negotiations on the Iranian nuclear program and noted that Kazakhstan is particularly attentive to this issue, the report said.
K. Tokayev also noted that "Kazakhstan and Russia are strategic partners and allies who make every effort to develop mutually beneficial cooperation, friendly relations between people, as well as regional security and economic integration."
M. Brodsky noted that Israel's innovative capabilities will be presented at the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Kazakhstan is now recognized by the international community as a civilized, legal, democratic State.
our common interests are stable, united and prosperous Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
It is expected that in 2016, 103.8 thousand square meters will be introduced under the regional development program. in 2016 under the program of regional development we expect to commission 103.8 thousand square meters .
considering weather data, we strengthened rescue teams in Akmola, Aktobe, East Kazakhstan, Kostanay and North Kazakhstan regions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the expense of operational rescue units, fire fighting and emergency rescue operations. given the forecast data , we have strengthened the rescue groups of the ministry of internal affairs in akmola , aktobe , east kazakhstan region , kostanai and north kazakhstan regions by means of operational-rescue units , fire services and rescue operations .
According to him, the party supports the state strategy to raise the country's economy to a new level, a way out of the global crisis.
According to the Governor's Office, employees of Medeu Park, student youth of Almaty University of Energy and Communications, Almaty University, Goncharov Kazakh Automobile and Road Academy, international educational corporation, as well as commercial and public organizations, deputies of the maslikhat of Almaty of the sixth convocation asylkhan tulepov and actors of Kazakhfilm took part in the action.
we created a bone regeneration system for osteoporosis. we have created system of regeneration of bones at fractures , osteoporosis .
The program of the university will be changed.
The Prime Minister of the country, the Ismail Sheriff, the Minister of Culture of Helmi al-Namnam, visited the domestic book counter.
many countries participate in the interaction of peace, the image is improving, trade is going well.
During the meeting, the head of state thanked M. Piotrovsky for his visit to the capital, and also noted the importance of cooperation between the national museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the state hermitage.
The President of Kazakhstan also instructed to continue the tasks of developing the investment attractiveness of the region, supporting small and medium-sized businesses.
The word "country" has its long-term history.
At the end of the year, it is planned to open the fourth component "Assessment of the effectiveness of public authorities."
we are proud that we used Internet voting, because for the first time a new technology was used in the Estonian republic, "the expert noted.
during the trip, Zhoshybayev visited the "monastic university" - a leading educational institution uniting research centers, universities, colleges and training associations involved in the development of a green economy in this region.
this is the Iranian company Empire Food with a capacity of 8 thousand tons and Nadezhda LLP with a capacity of 10 thousand tons per year in the Karasai region.
All auto-Asian cars have a contractual zone of the Kazakhstan holding in 7 countries, including the Asian region of Kazakhstan and Russia.
According to the political scientist, the program "Nұrly zhol" was adopted in a timely manner, thanks to the vision of the head of state N. Nazarbayev. Kazakhstan is very ready to meet the new economic situation.
I also plan to visit the Italian companies Ersai, Roset, Tenaris, working here in the energy industries.
barrick gold is a Canadian mining company, a global leader in the gold mining industry.
together we have gone through a number of difficult stages. together we have stood many tests , tempered and strengthened .
As in other post-Soviet countries of the region, our industry and the building construction industry are not efficient by many roads, so a lot of state work is underway. as other post-soviet countries , kazakhstan industry and construction sectors are largely ineffective , so the government is figuring out a complex work plan .
- Currently we buy products in the cities of Almaty and the capital.
At the end of the meeting k.masim and r.lyach. expressed interest in further deepening cooperation between Kazakhstan and Serbia.
eighth - the arrival in Kazakhstan of the Secretary of State of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Japan, Russia and Kazakhstan.
we drew attention to the large number of young people in the election commission. we have seen that at some polling stations there were queues .
all this has a negative impact on regional and national economies, "he said.
also offer alternative jobs.
however, if such issues arise, they will be discussed with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
To discuss global security issues, experts from different countries send a horse to the capital, "said D.Zen.
in the transport and logistics sector, it is planned to launch a new terminal with the participation of Japanese and other companies, "he added.
The King of the Netherlands got acquainted with the latest political and socio-economic achievements of Kazakhstan, the strategic direction "Kazakhstan 2050," the state development program "Nұrly zhol" and the national plan "100 concrete steps."
"from our point of view, the typhoid meeting will become an effective mechanism for promoting promising projects in the field of economics and solving complex problems."
it changed world history.
According to the head of the department, today Kazakhstan and Spain are developing cooperation in the field of engineering, tourism, food processing, renewable energy and the economy.
B. Zhamishev added that all tasks in the social sphere are very important, since social policy will be solved through employment.
all machinery produced at the plant is manufactured in accordance with international standards.
we, as the national chamber of entrepreneurs, are ready to enter the dialogue platform on corporate governance and necessarily create a national coordinating council. we are ready to be a platform for dialogue , it is necessary to establish a national coordinating council with participation of national companies , banks , small and medium-sized businesses .
It is worth noting that these houses were built by the national manager of the Baiterek holding, the mortgage organization Kazakhstan Mortgage Company, as part of a white and public and private partnership.
K. bozumbayev also spoke about the work on attracting investments.
in particular, the parties will cooperate in the field of industrial and innovative development, information technology and other sectors of the economy.
at the meeting, they exchanged views on political situations in the world.
they are aimed at the environmental problem in the field and the introduction of the principle of a green economy.
It is necessary to give more opportunities for the freedom and creativity of children, to support active thinking, "the head of state said.
He recalled that in 2016-2021, joint projects totaling $4.9 billion will be implemented, including $4.3 billion.
Bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that the signed agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation provides a solid basis for the comprehensive development of political, economic and cultural ties between Kazakhstan and the EU.
it is safe to say that healthy future countries and people live in the development of green technologies.
because Kazakhstan knows the atomic problem well and is interested in not spreading it to the whole world, "said O. Suleimenov.
thus, the principles of transparency and transparency of government in the management of national projects have been implemented.
The anti-crisis course of the head of state will contribute to the further modernization of the country and the implementation of the new "radiation" economic policy and strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," said M. Neubaev.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the development of this integration association, and also noted that an agreement was reached with the Chairman of the European Commission on holding a joint forum of the Eurasian Economic Union - the European Union in the fall.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the volatility in the global economy, which is also influenced by our country.
in accordance with the requirements of the head of state to increase export-oriented production, products will be supplied to Uzbek, Turkmen, Azerbaijani and other countries.
this is the industrial infrastructure of special economic and industrial zones.
the study of national and foreign languages, military disciplines and enhanced physical training.
today's conference is a good opportunity to discuss issues of relevance to us. today 's conference is a good reason and an opportunity for us to discuss the current business issues .
At the end of last year, our government clarified that they will take part in the exhibition, now various works are underway. in the end of last year , the government has confirmed its participation in the exhibition .
Last year, the Astana Economic Forum found 3 thousand investors, of which 500 were foreign.
The formation and implementation of a national qualification system in accordance with the agreement. the agreement addresses the issue of the formation and implementation of a national system of qualifications .
we are talking about the energy of the future, and we see that Kazakhstan is ready to host the event, it has a great interest in the number of participants, "he said.
Summing up, the chairman of the regional council congratulated his colleagues on International Women's Day on March 8 and wished success in all undertakings.
of these, 19 (42%) were associated with the election campaign for the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan (4 from public associations, 11 from individuals, 3 from the party, 1 from the regional election commission).
There was also an exchange of views on the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation on the basis of a new partnership agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union, "the statement said.
The forum involves the financial industry of Kazakhstan "nuh baiterek," "atameken."
more than 100 countries and 10 international organizations.
Great Britain, France, Germany, the Scheitsaria confirmed their participation.
Kazakhstan's civic identity is an important factor in the formation of a nation of a single future, the nation of a single future is the people of Kazakhstan, united by common values, having equal rights and sharing joint responsibility for the fate of the country, the expert said.
the topic under discussion is issues of mutually beneficial economic cooperation on the Eurasian continent.
As for the oil and gas industry, Senegal has recently opened several wide places and would like to get the experience of Kazakhstan in the framework of the program for the development of the mining industry, "said M.Sallom.
our working groups are being set up and working in this direction.
according to him, these are projects on water resources, agriculture, energy conservation and energy efficiency, renewable energy, waste management, reduction of air pollution, as well as protection and continuous management of ecosystems.
During the meeting with the Australian ambassador, P. Abdykalikova noted that Australia is an important partner for Kazakhstan in the Asia-Pacific region.
Kazakhstan's achievements in the field of non-proliferation should be highly appreciated and serve as an example for nuclear Powers seeking to become responsible members of the international community. kazakhstan 's non-proliferation efforts are commendable and serve as an example for both current and aspiring nuclear powers that seek to act as responsible members of the international community .
According to the National Committee of Parasportists of Kazakhstan, more than 70 athletes from Almaty, Akmola, Zhambyl, Pavlodar, Karaganda, South Kazakhstan regions and the capital took part in competitions.
according to him, instability in the world put an end to Kazakhstan.
Trade links are being strengthened.
commodity control "Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship on the one hand, free trade agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and its member states and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the other hand, clothing items made of natural leather, clothing and other products" on ratification of the Agreement on the implementation of a pilot project on the implementation of labeling with signs (identification) in 2015-2016, as well as on shared participation in housing construction and shared participation in legislation; state regulation of production and turnover of certain types of petroleum products; on the reduction of permitting documents and the simplification of permitting procedures.
We look forward to the upcoming race and arrival in Almaty, "said Neil Rogers.
- What is the peculiarity of the new wage model?
Producer of the best goods for the population: Baiserke Agro LLP in Almaty region, Agroproduct Ltd LLP in Almaty
the report of our president at a congress "Nr Otan" is very important in the conditions of today's global crisis.
In total, they implemented more than 150 projects worth about $6 billion and created more than 20 thousand jobs, "said K. Pockets.
we have mastered the experience of the Czech Republic, Ireland, Germany, Austria and other countries.
Kazakhstan's membership in the WTO is just beginning. kazakhstan 's membership in the world trade organization has just begun .
Investing in women is one of the best and most favorable investments around the world and directly in Kazakhstan. investing in women is one of the best and favorable investments around the world and directly in kazakhstan .
Over the years of the implementation of the state industrialization program, the chemical industry has shown great growth.
our party is failing. there are no such impossible tasks that our party cannot fulfill .
Kazakhstan can increase its hopes, "Nursultan Abishevich said.
the rest of the observers remained unchanged, and Germany leaves their list, "he said.
the rest of the work should be done by higher educational institutions, "said the deputy prime minister.
During this period, the average amount of social benefits for disability increased 7.3 times: from 3,106 to 22,710 tenge.
"In order to increase transit cargo flows through the territory of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the Nұrly zhol program, large-scale measures are being implemented to develop national transport infrastructure.
ratification of the instruments will contribute to the development of military-technical cooperation of member States, as well as to the further strengthening of regional and collective security.
according to him, "the world. XXI century "has become a recognized leader in the fight against the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction due to the wise policy of the first president of Kazakhstan.
217-apartment residential complex with a total area of ​ ​ 14.40 thousand m ² in the area of ​ ​ individual housing construction in the southeast region in the direction of rental housing, a residential complex for 95 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 5.10 thousand m ² in the area of ​ ​ individual housing construction in the southeast region. Also, southeast of the village of Koktal, it is planned to build a 293-apartment residential complex with a total area of 16.30 thousand m ².
"This January marks the 24th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our countries.
political choice is not always finance, "said Mr. Shalakhmetova.
In addition, as it became known at the briefing, this year 131 facilities worth 44.6 billion tenge are being built in the region.
the Special Major General of National Security, Duisebayevsky Abilseit Razakhyn;
we are interested in interacting with Turkish companies in all areas of the economy, "he said. we are interested in cooperation with the turkish companies in all sectors of the economy .
The ambassador expressed sincere gratitude to the leadership of Kazakhstan and congratulated on the main state holiday of the country, "the statement said.
director - lorenzo amato (Italy).
Kazakhstan and the ICD signed an agreement "Xi agriment."
During the meeting, the main areas of multilateral cooperation were discussed, including strengthening cultural exchange, developing ties in the field of education, tourism.
Today is a world day for the protection of human rights. today is human rights day around the world .
this is a warning sign.
good works do not need a special reason. we don 't need special reasons for good deeds .
a new stage of activity is coming, which begins in Kazakhstan.
the maximum amount of the loan is up to 50 million tenge.
roads pass through the territory of the region, including western China - western Europe, "railway lines, gas pipelines.
we involve mothers with many children and pensioners, domestic workers. we employ a lot of mothers with many children , pensioners , housewives .
During the project, historians, archaeologists, ethnographers, guides and employees of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan give lectures, conduct practical classes and excursions in museum halls.
this goal has been achieved.
this is 3 times more than in the previous five years.
another aspect of the crisis programme is general economic liberalization.
was also interested in cooperation between Kazrosnabcompany LLP and Keitherinburg.
I am sure that you will take an active part in the Universiade and the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
The purpose of the meeting is to open new ways of cooperation, exchange experience of representatives of large, medium and small businesses, as well as to establish interaction with the Kazakh and Indian business circles.
The main problem in the world is employment. the main issue - jobs .
Then the residents and guests of the city were presented with a concert program and a gala concert of the international festival "Art is My Life."
According to the speaker, thanks to the support of the project, a new model of civil service was created.
It is not enough for Kazakhstan to be the best in the CIS.
our cultural and spiritual values, issues of economics, politics, morality and trust, where we see Kazakhstan in the global world, everything should be reflected in this document.
In addition, 5 milk trucks worth 1.2 billion tenge, 8 complexes of new modern equipment were purchased.
most observers from Russia - 6, Germany - 5, Great Britain - 4 observers, "said T. Okhlopkova
Within the framework of the visit to Belgium, a meeting of the President of Kazakhstan with the President of the European Council and the President of the European Commission is also planned.
Registration of candidates is carried out by the Central Election Commission from February 29 to March 5.	as the plan states , the nomination of candidates for mazhilis deputies from the apk begins on february 20 and ends on february 29 ,  - t. okhlopkova said .
we tried to spend quality and completely. commission knows all the laws and legal norms .
I first come to Mangistau region. it is the first time i came to mangistau region .
this is unusual for us, for Europeans it is a daily dinner.
this agreement will strengthen our cooperation with the kazatomprom and allow us to fully use the investment potential of the Incai enterprise, "says the president of kameko tim gitzel.
Kazakhstan has become an important and respected member of the international community.
At the end of 2015, products worth 82 billion tenge were produced.
Council members approved the main guidelines for macroeconomic policy of the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) for 2016-2017.
Meetings were also held with the government leadership, including with the Secretary of State, the leaders of Ukraine and Mexico, the head of state said.
Under these conditions, environmental protection uses the necessary conditions for the sustainable development of civilization, "the head of state said.
the program includes works by Kazakhstan, Russian and Western composers, as well as the symphonic state of E. rahmadiev. the musical ballet Kazhgali "Steppe Legend" and two musical suites "romeo and juliet" were sounded.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the state, despite the negative impact of the global economic crisis, strictly fulfills its social obligations and maintains the necessary level of defense, security and law and order.
Ivan Godarski - media specialist (Slovak Republic)
in particular, these areas are asset management, the creation of a green financial industry, the promotion of new financial technologies.
Balzhit-grual shared the development of the samruk-kazyna plan for 2016-2020.
fifthly, it is necessary to increase the innovative potential of the economy of Kazakhstan.
read more about the role of election observers in Kazakhstan.
all types of disposal operations are on video, "said Erbol alibekov.
here changes in the square.
During the meeting, the parties agreed to sign a memorandum of cooperation between EXPO-2017 and expo-2020 dubai.
Thus, in its activities in Kazakhstan since 1993, the Buudb has implemented 180 projects in Kazakhstan worth 72 million US dollars.
To date, 39 jobs have been introduced for a total of 20.4 billion tenge, more than 3 thousand jobs have been created, this year it is planned to receive 18 projects (cost - 2.2 billion tenge).
According to the inspection, in 2015 the region produced 5889.6 million cubic meters of gas and 6930.9 thousand tons of oil, which is 23% and 10% more than in 2014.
above all, increase the revenue base of the budget.
Following the discussion, the participants of the working group - the organizers of the "recommended by expo-2017" program, representatives of the tourism sector, educational and cultural institutions of the capital - developed appropriate requirements for evaluating guide guides.
I think that during this short period of its formation Kazakhstan has achieved many successes, "J.Aakhmetbekov said.
The participation of global countries in building peace is based on the responsibility for peaceful dialogue and security, "said a foreign expert.
the global economic crisis, including sanctions between Russia and Russia, has had a significant impact on Central Asian countries. the global economic crisis , the sanctions have significantly influenced the economic situation of different countries in central asia .
participants of the international financial center "Capital" will be invited international and domestic companies, brokerage and dealer services, underwriting services, investment companies, an Islamic bank, insurance companies and others.
investment projects were presented to the French delegation: reconstruction of the airport of Uralsk, the creation of an industrial zone, the construction of a solar power plant and others.
Kazakhstan's regional development in the form of a grant of 6 million 288 thousand. Euro. "
The new composition of the meeting should be formed from energetic, knowledgeable specialists, "said Zh.Akhmetov.
on the front side are the main images - the Kazakh country, "the front arch of the Prague and eternal country.
The head of the upper chamber thanked M.Buendia for his great contribution to the development of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Vatican and wished further success.
our joint work, of course, will help reduce the level of cross-border crime, strengthen the confidence of citizens and businesses in national financial systems and increase the investment attractiveness of our countries, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
Now the issue of housing is very relevant, since young families who created housing are experiencing housing problems, "he said.
the fight against terrorism is an important situation, a globally important situation.
special rank of Major General of the State Security Service;
The head of the mission also noted that tomorrow, March 20, it is planned to involve 300 observers from the CIS.
"The Typhoid Council is an important part of the dialogue between Kazakhstan and the countries of Central Asia on the development of approaches to trade and economic cooperation and the further implementation of strategically important industries."
The head of state stressed that he pays special attention to expanding cooperation with Israel.
there are no plans to create a joint production, but if Kazakhstan receives an order, we will be able to discuss our partners with the Russian Helicopters holding, "he said.
in general, the critical aspect of the new social policy will depend on a gradual increase in investment in human development.
In this case, Kazakhstan needs a new political elite, and I think that when the head of state made this decision, this resident took into account.
As a citizen and scientist, I support this decision of the head of state.
In addition, the parties held negotiations on updating the action plan for the "new synergy" program under the auspices of the two heads of state.
we count on your fair, impartial and professional assessment of the upcoming elections, "said the vice speaker.
accreditation assesses the level of leadership, resource management, safety management, organization of treatment and patient care activities.
The volume of industrial products in the region last year amounted to 668.4 billion tenge, in the mining industry produced products worth 182.9 billion tenge, in the manufacturing industry - by 420.5 billion tenge, in agriculture - by 344.6 billion tenge.
The meeting was attended by the Prime Minister K.Masimov, the head of the presidential administration n.nigmatulin, the chairman of the constitutional council, etc. horns, attorney general a. Daulbaev and others.
Almaty attaches great importance to mutual cooperation with Egypt. almaty attaches great importance to cooperation with egypt .
social innovations, institutional management, housing financing, the capital market, management, the balance of public interests, "explained Yan Coulburn.
In such disciplines as the history of Kazakhstan, political science, cultural studies, the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country," as well as the introduction of values ​ ​ and the "great steppe" voiced by the head of state in recent years, "the vice minister said.
Kazakhstan noted the high level of cooperation between the two countries, especially focusing on the potential of deepening economic ties.
Today, the existing world is undergoing a difficult stage of development. nowadays the whole world is going through a difficult phase of the controversial development .
This project is implemented thanks to state support.
another example is the evak system.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan awarded r.zevedo the Order of Friendship of the II degree for improving cooperation and strengthening friendship.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe should strive to strengthen confidence in all security interests between countries and have enough opportunities for this, "said K. Tokayev.
In the 21st century, we experience stability, patience.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the laws adopted in recent years are aimed at humanizing the policy on crimes, introducing alternative penalties for economic crimes.
Managing Director of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest erlan murat introduced the Romanian business group to Kazakhstan's investment opportunities.
management of the region, the first deputy prosecutor general, the first deputy chairman of the national security committee with. Abish, the deputy minister of internal affairs r.zhakupov, the deputy minister of justice z.baymoldin, representatives of other state bodies, as well as the manager of hereditary projects a.vukkert.
Recall that today in the capital under the chairmanship of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev, an extraordinary XVII congress of the Nұr Otan party was held.
It is worth noting that currently for the armed forces of Kazakhstan, the plant of Kazakhstan Paramount Engineering LLP is developing a batch of 4x4 Arlan.
our institution successfully works with the Kurgan company. our factories are working successfully with companies of kurgan .
Among the three financing loans, Mining Gold LLP was created 100% on behalf of the head of state and state.
thirdly, this means that the goods were recognized by the Kazakhstani people.
at the end, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished everyone good health, success in study and work, well-being and well-being.
Thanks to this work, Kazakhstan has been living in a new legal institutional environment since January 1, 2016, which consists of 59 laws and more than 400 legal acts, "he said.
central and local executive bodies receive this training.
There are six nuclear-weapon-free zones in the world.
If the price of one square meter fixed through local executive bodies - 140,000 tenge in the regions, then in the capital and Almaty - 180,000 tenge, "he said.
On the same day, a bilateral meeting of the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan and Tasmagambetov took place.
During the decade, it is planned to hold seminars, exhibitions of books, round tables, open classes, children's creative competitions, charity events, visit cinemas, entertainment centers, sports complexes, and organize large-scale events with the participation of parents.
According to the national managing holding Baiterek, during the event, the heads of the holding's subsidiaries (Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan JSC, National Agency for Technological Development JSC, Kazexportgarant Export and Credit Insurance Agency JSC) will present presentations on the activities and prospects for the development of companies.
In order to determine and evaluate the volume of cargo transportation, the "railway construction company" will send its specialists to Kazakhstan.
In particular, the head of state was informed about the progress in the construction of important commercial, cultural and residential facilities of the capital, the modernization of infrastructure and the phased implementation of tasks in the field of transport.
138.4 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Green Country project.
As the deputy of the Senate noted, Kazakhstan is a "world. The twenty-first century "shows the world not in words, but in practice.
the memorandum provides for the development of tourism between Aktobe and the Kyzylorda region, increasing the efficiency of opening traditional and new tourist routes, expanding types of tourism.
we live in new geoeconomic conditions.
During the meeting, topical issues of the international agenda were discussed, as well as cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the framework of the global anti-nuclear movement.
All rooms are fully computerized.
dear compatriots and members of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan. dear compatriots and members of the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan .
each meeting of like-minded people and new members opens a new sheet in the history of our organization. each new meeting of the eag members and observers on combating money laundering and financing of terrorism enter a new chapter in the history of our organization .
world experience shows that countries are the main platform for attracting investment and economic growth.
During the talks with the Vice-President of the Swedish Telecommunications Corporation Ian Abramsanov, the parties discussed issues of cooperation, exchange of experience and implementation of projects within the framework of EXPO-2017.
this indicator cannot fully reflect the economic potential of the region.
Azerbaijan is interested in a stable, prosperous Kazakhstan.
a significant part of the exposition is dedicated to Kazakhstan, the leader of the nation, as well as its role and significance in the formation and development of the country.
in this regard, the plan announced by the President and the Government to establish an international financial centre "is very relevant in terms of privatization.
almost all world markets - finance, hydrocarbons, metals, food and others - are unstable.
generation + development of the research and creative potential of school mentors, technical and professional educational institutions, popularization of the basic principles of the "magical country" among the younger generation: civil equality, industriousness, tolerance, honesty and patriotism.
those who studied in Kazakhstan will never be among the terrorists. those , who were trained in kazakhstan , will never be in the terrorist ranks .
every year we send thousands of students to the best universities in the world.
The head of the city noted that, despite the economic situation, the construction of social facilities does not stop.
to date, relevant preparatory documents for the transition to a new operating model have been developed. to date , the necessary preparatory work for the transition to the new operating model has been completed , " - said a. mamin .
this is due to the care of the head of state.
If last year its volume amounted to 60 billion tenge, then in 2016 75 billion tenge is planned as part of budget lending.
According to the ambassador, Kazakhstan and Belarus support each other in overcoming the global economic crisis.
Housing construction was carried out as part of the industrialization map.
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the National Commission - Prime Minister Karim Massimov, the head of the working group on reform of five directions - Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Dariga Nazarbayev, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration Baglan Mailybayev, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of Kazakhstan Marat Beketayev, Minister ketayev, Minister at Donakov Minister akov.
masha janushevich - coordinator of long-term observers (Republic of Serbia)
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the European Union is one of the most important vectors of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and a priority area of ​ ​ trade and economic cooperation.
By the end of the year, 2.8 thousand apartments will be additionally handed over in the cities of Almaty, Shymkent, taraz, Kyzylorda, Aktau, Pavlodar.
the international program is designed for 2 years, the first year of which will be held at the academy, the second - at the national school of akimat (ena) and Paris 1 pantheon-sorbon university.
we support people through the Employment Road Map 2020.
its participants are the regional branch of the youth wing "zhas otan" and the detachment "green country."
Holding EXPO-2017 is an important opportunity for Spanish companies to demonstrate their capabilities in this area, "he said.
Elections in Kazakhstan are held very honestly, without violations, "he said.
to date, monthly expenses have increased if parents paid 27 thousand, 1 place in kindergarten costs 38 thousand.
these issues are very important for developing countries: there is a water issue, a bioorta issue, and tasks should be performed not only by countries, but also by global corporations, the president said.
75 legal entities, 62 officials were brought to administrative responsibility for budgetary and other violations, more than 200 people were brought to disciplinary responsibility.	75 legal entities and 62 officials were brought to the administrative responsibility for violation of the budget and other legislation , 271 officials were brought to the disciplinary responsibility ,  the head of department has said .
The construction of the center is carried out by a subsidiary of Kazengineering JSC - Kazakhstan Aviation Industry LLP.
in the game of the main madam butterfly - Honored Artist of Kazakhstan Zhannat Bakhtai and Honored Worker of Kazakhstan Aigul Niyazova (soprano).
According to him, all interested parties in the regions should be present, representatives of the agricultural and business sectors should unite.
Kazakhstan has created favorable conditions for its citizens, today the republic is among the developed countries and is inferior in terms of indicators to many countries of the world, "Baketaev said.
It should be noted that the project will complete its work in February 2017.
A high-tech interactive social forum was organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan and the Kazakh press club.
we have enough land to grow these products. we have enough land to produce this product .
therefore, my pension is 55 thousand tenge.
Thus, the work of rescue services will improve, their effectiveness will increase.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Chevron in the oil and gas sector, the implementation of joint projects, as well as the expansion of the corporation's participation in the development of the field were discussed.
it is also necessary to monitor the implementation of State, sectoral and regional programmes and to continue, at the appropriate level, to provide for socially vulnerable citizens, oralmans and the unemployed.
gas, oil, automobile gasoline, fuel, fuel oil, jet engine.
All these opportunities contribute to the opening of foreign economic activity to domestic enterprises and have a number of results, "said M. Mazhitov.
The meeting is ready to further deepen cooperation with European colleagues in the framework of the newly created parliamentary cooperation committee "Republic of Kazakhstan - European Union."
Recall that in Astana, in the format of a closed round table, a Hwok regional conference was held, dedicated to the Astana Economic Forum.
the world is moving towards a more dangerous and unpredictable new nuclear age.
As part of this, sosa-cola plans to attract 5 million women worldwide to business by 2020 and organize opportunities to participate in business trainings.
this is the fourth time we've met this. this is the fourth time we meet .
I will definitely try, "said Mr. Golovkin.
The head of state pays great attention to the development of culture and art. the head of state pays great attention to the development of culture and art .
This year Kazakhstanis celebrate the 24th anniversary of independence.
we are working to identify companies. we are working together to identify businesses willing to cooperate .
all legislation and regulations are drawn up by the State. all laws and regulations are done by the state .
all the main players will take part here - from China, Russia, from the European Union to India, Iran and Turkey, "the head of state said.
According to T. Okhlopkova, on January 15, 2012, during meetings and elections of deputies of maslikhats by the central election commissions and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 975 international observers and representatives of foreign gardens were registered.
- What is it connected with?
For four years now, fruitful work has been underway on the development of our region. the active productive work on the development of our regions is carried out for 4 years .
Mangistau is an important project point for the great silk road.
financial discipline is the key to the successful development of the domestic economy, social and good life of citizens.
for this, a group of specialists will go to the airbus small training center in Spain, the second group to the Ukrainian state enterprise Antonov, and group 3 to Israel to gain knowledge and experience in maintenance and repair.
the whole world has recognized Kazakhstan, our opinion is listened to by the international community, major summits are held in the country with the participation of many states, we are trusted and respected, we are striving in conflicts.
he cited the concept of hunters, fishermen, gatherers.
For the EAEU countries, Cambodia can become a gateway for southeast Asia and Asia.
All procedures are specified in the building design agreement. all these terms will be outlined in the contract of akimat and private investor .
Kazakhstan and India are close to each other in history. kazakhstan and india are historically close to each other .
I'm afraid to be the first ticket buyer. i am very pleased that i 'm the first purchaser of the ticket .
During the control, we found that all candidates perform their campaigning work in accordance with the law. all the candidates are conducting their propaganda work in line with the legislation with no violations , " said h. ipek .
The youth unemployment rate at ⁾ 15-28 years old was 4.3%.
According to the ambassador, Kazakhstan's accession to non-permanent members for 2017-2018 plays an important role in the country's foreign policy.
there is now an economic crisis around the world.
he noted the fruitful cooperation between Nazarbayev University and the Kuan Yu State Policy School, as well as the interaction of the two countries in the field of technical education.
this is a massive seizure of the market of Kazakhstan by Turkish companies.
there are many industries here that interest American investors, "said George Krol.
To discuss this issue, we need to organize a number of meetings and agree on upcoming cooperation, "he said.
Compared to 2014, subsidies increased by 62.5 million tenge.
time has shown that these economic issues need to be addressed expeditiously.
As part of the "Nұrly zhol" program, the construction of 2 schools in the cities of Karaganda and Satpayev and kindergartens of the regional center will be completed.
annual remuneration of 7.5%.
the share of revenues of the city of Almaty amounted to 26.3% and became the main donor of the budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said B. Baibek.
we must think about the future of our children and grandchildren.
fourth, the global economy is under pressure from political factors.
The agreement will strengthen the trade position between the EAEU and Vietnam. "
According to the Deputy Consul General of China Miao Hongbo, the implementation of the project under the program "Nұr zhol, one belt - one way" will lead to the modernization of the great silk road.
On the instructions of the Prime Minister, a working group headed by the Deputy Prime Minister Dariga Nazarbayeva has been created.
Among these projects are aluminum of Kazakhstan according to German technology and the abdi ibrahim globalpharm pharmaceutical plant in the Ili region, "the akim of the region said.
Andrey timurin, transport worker:
the introduction of new elements, accordingly, will increase the professionalism of the state apparatus in the career model of civil servants, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
in the context of the development of modern international trends, the republic is interested in the integration of the domestic economy into the global and regional system.
During the meeting, the main areas of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey, as well as the most pressing issues on the international agenda were discussed.
Also, according to the CEC, in Kazakhstan the polling station is 9440, and abroad - 65.
this is a very good result in the economic situation, "he said.
Over the past 5 years, the region occupies the 2nd place in Kazakhstan in attracting foreign investment, trade relations with 100 countries have been concluded, the total volume of foreign trade has amounted to 3.7 billion dollars.
The seminar is attended by employees of the presidential administration, the office of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the National Security Committee of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan and other analytical structures of central and local state bodies.
family values ​ ​ are impregnated from an early age, it is necessary to teach young people these values ​ ​ with age, "he said.
this is a patent for individual entrepreneurs and a special tax regime for small and medium-sized businesses, as well as for the agricultural sector.
specific instructions were given at the XXII session of kha and the XVI congress "nұr Otan."
The candidate for deputy maslikhat will pay 4 million, that is, 114,295 tenge, as an election fee, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and the Kazakh people were congratulated by the Prime Minister of Japan on the upcoming 25th anniversary of independence and the successful holding of elections to the Majilis of the parliament.
we conducted the first examination.
President of the Italian Republic S. Mattarella wished to create new opportunities for further strengthening mutually beneficial ties between the two countries, including in the political and economic spheres of relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
According to him, young creative people help new legislation, express new views and new ideas.
It should be noted that avenech wireless is one of the world's leading manufacturers of satellite and radio frequency equipment, microwave, wireless broadband and fibre-band communications.
they are interested in meat, wheat, barley, soybean oil, corn, "the Governor of Zhambyl region said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our society today is ready for various challenges.
Following the visit, the First Deputy Prime Minister gave instructions to state bodies.
our country will provide the results of the primary public service.
Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will represent the following sectors: agriculture, oil fields, petrochemistry, metallurgy, mechanical engineering and logistics.
22 thousand jobs were saved, 330 new jobs were created.
Also, these numbers will grow in the future, "the minister said.
"We thank all the experts of the ecu/diakb mission for the work done and look forward to further fruitful cooperation."
So, Karaganda Complex Alloys Plant LLP plans to build a complex alloy plant on the territory of the Saryarka special economic zone.
In addition, Karim Massim took part in a collective meeting of President of the Republic of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan with the heads of government of the EAEU member states.
also during the meeting, N.Lalovich presented Nursultan Nazarbayev with the Order of Honor of the International Federation "World of United Struggle."
local enterprises are ready to export yellow phosphorus, sodium tripolyphosphate, mineral fertilizers - ammophos, thermal orthophosphoric acid, barium sulfate, iron devices, granite, marble, gypsum board sheets.
Recall that in the message of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev dated November 30, 2015, the program "Free professional education for all" will be launched.
As for the production infrastructure, a 35 of projects totaling 2,791,23 million tenge was approved at the expense of the republican budget for electricity supply, road repair, sewage systems, water supply, replacement of the steam line.
Recall that the Majilis of Kazakhstan approved the bill "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the creation and functioning of offices in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
There are various programs that will grow our entrepreneurs, "he said.
During the event, the republican competition of the best souvenirs "Great Steppe Art" was announced for the exhibition EXPO-2017.
In accordance with the requirements of the global standard of agricultural insurance and modern technologies, work has begun on the construction of a feedlot for 740 thousand heads in the amount of 3 million tenge, "the akim of the district said.
the spartakiad began with the action "One hundred thousand times muscle."
however, the head of state sent the country to a national fund for the accumulation of oil revenues, an industrial-innovative strategy in the field of science, education and health was adopted.
- General Director of mabex LLC, Astana, the purpose of ramankuls;
According to him, 83 thousand objects of non-residential property have been legalized, of which 6,000 are commercial.
Since this year, as part of its contribution to water management policy, the first EU project on "supporting Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy" has been implemented.
low development is observed in Mangistau, East Kazakhstan regions and the city of Astana.
we must resolve all issues as soon as possible and submit our decision to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "he said.
also reported to the head of state on the main directions of the current activities of the board.
The purpose of the meeting is to establish contacts and exchange experience between public representatives of Kazakhstan in Europe.
Among the "widespread" equipment purchased for leasing through protein, in addition to tractors and seed seeders, there are such technologies as scratch, sun, juice, mower, loosener, grate.
At the meetings in the unilateral and expanded composition of the head of delegations, they considered the current state, prospects and measures for further deepening cooperation between the Shu member states in the trade, economic, investment, transport, communication and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
a. al-Qubeisi thanked K. Tokayev. for an invitation to visit Kazakhstan.
English is the language of science, "said the Amantai Nurmagambetov.
It is worth noting that companies created by graduates of the Future program play a leading role in construction, restaurant business.
- Director of Aktobe "Kazkommertsbank" Denmark Espaev;
all projects are carried out in cities and districts of the region.
our young artists performed a work of world ballet classics.
today's elections are an important stage in the history of Kazakhstan.
this will further affect Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness.
according to the diplomat, Kazakhstan is interested in supplying building materials, Indian fertilizers, metals and other products.
The World Trade Organization is a work, we need to work hard and increase competitiveness. the world trade organization requires hard work .
talk about the activities of international observers in Kazakhstan.
In October, the EEC adopted an agreement on a methodology for the formation of indicative (forecast) balances of gas, oil and oil products within the framework of the euro at the level of first deputy prime ministers.
The number of indicators reflects the effectiveness of activities in this area. a number of indicators shows the effectiveness of the measures in this area .
high rates of economic and industrial-innovative development of the metropolis.	he noted that the metropolis demonstrates high rates of economic and industrial-innovative development .	1,20
candidates for deputies of the regional, capital and Almaty city maslikhats for speaking with the election program on radio frequencies are provided 20 thousand tenge, candidates for deputies of the city and district maslikhats - 7 thousand tenge.	total , as the decision of the central election commission states , 245 thousand tenge will be allocated for candidates for regional , astana and almaty maslikhats , and 153 thousand tenge for city and district maslikhats candidates .	1,20
one of 11 candidates nominated for the regional maslikhat from the White Road party, the chairman of the commission said.
their implementation will contribute to becoming one of the developed countries of the world.
for this, all budget programs will be optimized, we calculated them.
According to him, the head of state signed a decree on the celebration last year.
38 objects and securities worth 1044.4 million tenge were legalized, "the report said.
the third is development.
During the visit, the Secretary of State got acquainted with the production and technical base of the company, the project of career guidance work, "free vocational and technical education for all" among students in diagnostics and career guidance.
Also, by the end of the year, it is planned to complete the construction of a ferry complex in the land port of Mangistau region, the second route on the Almaty-1 - noise railway section, and in anticipation of the opening of the Expo-2017 exhibition, to complete the construction of the international terminal of the capital's airport and a new railway station.
Kazakhstan is becoming a leader in the world of this region, "said the Ambassador of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on future cooperation within the framework of Expo-2017, technical issues of participation were discussed.
We want to say that we are pleased with the work done by the organizing committee. we were satisfied with the level of preparation and the work done by the organizing committee .
At the same time, he noted that this holiday is a very important event for all Kazakhstanis.
- Director of Research Institute of Southwestern Economy and Agriculture of South Kazakhstan region Nurzhanazhimetov LLP;
now and at any other time, our main anti-crisis stratagem is connected with the concepts of three simple, but important - growth, reforms, development.
Opening the round table, Advisor-Commissioner of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia Viktor Temirbaev called this article of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
Nrla zhol "is the national project accelerating development of infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
N. Modi said that the development of mutually beneficial cooperation with the capital is a priority of India's foreign policy in Central Asia.
Head of the Committee on Construction, Production of Building Materials and Housing and Public Utilities of the National Chamber Alexander Belovich, in turn, proposed to introduce in the country the practice of doing business in accordance with the standards fidic (federation internationald's ingenieurs-conseils) with the terms of the contract concluded in accordance with the civil code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, according to N. Nazarbayev, various concessions and mutual understanding between religion, culture and civilization are very important.
the problems of world development should not be addressed by 8 or 20 States, but by the entire international community.
The meeting discussed issues of strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and the organization, including the implementation of our country's initiatives voiced within the framework of flexibility.
It can be noted that the legislative work of the parliament was carried out in the new conditions. the legislative work was carried out under the new conditions .
First President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev is the founder of a new independent country that ensures unity and constitutional protection, freedom and human rights. first president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev is the founder of a new independent state , which ensured the unity and defended the constitution , rights and freedoms of citizen .
we believe that the two programmes complement each other.
we must review our strategy, that is, how we will develop for the next 5-10 years, "he said.
I am sure that the implementation of the Nұrly Zhol program will achieve the same success, "the ambassador said.
The implementation of the program will allow foreign guests to get from guides all the necessary information about the capital and Kazakhstan in accordance with the requirements of international standards.
The memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the regional powers of the Central Asian HCP will have a positive impact on the development and strengthening of cooperation on the scale of international humanitarian law, as well as the continued implementation and further application of its norms in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I'm president of the World Commissioners Expo Club. i represent all commissioners around the world .
For this reform, new people are needed who will pass laws. these reforms require new people .
North Kazakhstan region is primarily agrarian. north kazakhstan is an agricultural region .
On the instructions of the Head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan fulfills its social obligations as much as possible. as you know , according to the instructions of the head of state the kazakh government fulfills its social obligations .
Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant is a leading Kazakh producer of oil and gas, petrochemical, energy and railway equipment, special-purpose products.
In January, we present the Macmilaon Foundation - the famous dancer of the 20th century, the heroine of the play "Manon," said the head of the theater.
most often, Kazakhstanis receive through the portal an address certificate (62 million), a certificate of pension contributions (11.8 million) and a certificate of registered rights to real estate (18.6 million).
The purpose of this work is to determine targets in the prospects for the development of generating capacities, "said the head of the department.
The head of state reported in detail on the advantages of cooperation with our country.
The tasks of the Plan of the Nation require new ideological people. "
Recall that this year the first army international games "Armi-2015" were held.
In turn, the Director General of the WTO noted the effectiveness of Kazakhstan's actions to improve the business climate and increase investment attractiveness, noted in the World Bank's doing business rating, and expressed readiness for further mutually beneficial cooperation.
Also, "mercury" visited the transport and logistics center (clo), belonging to the class "a" in the capital.
"- concluded V. Kosarev.
our ancestor's contribution to world civilization.
I believe that this plant for deep processing of oilseeds will be a successful project.
According to K. Bishimbayev, today the construction of 2016 thousand square meters of housing is underway, which will be commissioned in 240.
During this time, parliament and the government have passed more than 500 laws, "he said.
Over the years of cooperation, German business circles have invested about 3.1 billion US dollars in Kazakhstan.
our common task is to find access to the market for production projects of local enterprises implemented in various sectors of the economy, "said the chairman of nadloc.
we will definitely defeat the new global crisis.
Plan of the Nation - project of large-scale modernization of Kazakhstan
Polish Ambassador to Kazakhstan arrived at the event.
the road map between Kazakhstan and Iran is being improved, "said A. Aidarov.
It is necessary to support initiatives that will reduce the burden on the budget and lead to an increase in the range of services provided to the population and improve quality. Jaksybekov.
the introduction of a five-day school week and the advantages of the updated program, in our opinion, are undisputed.
the court of second instance (appellate) is the regional court, the highest court is the court of cassation, "said e.maxuta.
Kazakhstan has proved itself as a stable state, "said the turner.
Mangistau region is interested in us as a region implementing transport infrastructure, shipbuilding and marine logistics projects, "said Mr. Stefano Ravagnan.
- Deputy General Director of JSC "Aktobe-Aktobe" zhakupov genre;
we are studying the experience of many countries.
Tengizshevroil, Kashagan Petroleum and new sources of oil Kashagan are the main oil producing companies where growth will be high, "said Bozumbayev.
this year, at the forum, the 12th President of Afghanistan is Hamit Karzai, Journalist of the American company "Global Media Production" riz khan, head of the Middle East management of russia today pola slier, host of the Chinese television channel cctv lei cheng, politician, expert of the Russian Council on International Affairs maxim bitches, bloomberg TV executive producer todd bayer, egyptologist chairman of the board of the al-ahram media holding ahmed al-said, al-naggar, adviser to the Secretary of State of the Russian Federation, gross maria, Editor-in-chief "chime for change" - marian pearl, head of the Republic of Kazakhstan - trajan Hristea, Russian TV presenter Alexey brewers, first deputy general director of tass Mikhail Gusman and others.
on the creation of such an important organization aimed at solving food security issues in the world, President N. Nazarbayev praised Nazarbayev's initiative.
Over time, the issue of expanding this project will probably arise, "said K. Sherbayev.
today our goal is to preserve and show our legacy to the future generation.
our nationwide "revival" movement is an organization aimed at combating corruption.
tourism development should become a philosophy and ideology for every Almaty citizen. "
France was the first country to welcome the independence of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the issues of updating the Employment Roadmap 2020 and the implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget for 2016-2018" will be considered.
we support the decision to introduce free vocational knowledge and are an effective tool for building specialists at a new level, "he said.
In 2013, 6,843 million square meters were built in the republic, in 2014 - 7,518 million square meters, in 2015 - 8,940 million square meters.
the continuity of these initiatives is the result of the work of Nursultan Nazarbayev. the constancy of these priorities is the result of a sequence of nursultan nazarbayev in promotion of the integration initiatives .
To date, 80 projects are being implemented in Kazakhstan, including 8 projects of republican significance.
This was made possible thanks to the personal support of the head of state. " Jaksybekov.
During the visit, A. Mamin held talks with Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Batyr Zakirov, Minister of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade Elier Ganiev and Chairman of the Board of Uzbek Railways JSC ashilbek ramatov.
this agreement is aimed at strengthening economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia.	the aim of the convention is to strengthen and expand the economic cooperation between kazakhstan and saudi arabia through the creation of favorable conditions for investments .	1,21
this is a very important document, I think that all the calls voiced in the manifesto will only grow, "he said.
I believe that the elections in Kazakhstan are held at a high level, "he said.
the gap between leading and lagging countries is growing every day.
there are great opportunities for the development of economic, military-political cooperation between the two countries, regardless of their remoteness and remoteness.
At the beginning of this year, the investment potential of Aktobe region was presented in Turkey in the format of a road show.
Currently, a foreign investor represented by the rixos group signed a cooperation agreement with the Samruk-kazyna National Wealth Fund, "said M. Karimov.
Professional standards must be violated first. first of all it is necessary to develop the professional standards .
as a result, new jobs will be created and the export potential of the region will increase.
In turn, representatives of the Argentine company "global pro" said that they would submit their latest projects on green technology to the Expo-2017 exhibition, which will be held in the capital on June 10 - September 10, 2017.
At the same time, according to K. Bisetayev, agriculture always wants investment.
bakytzhan sagintayev and the regional director of the World Bank of Central Asia discussed the implementation of environmental and water projects in Kazakhstan.
We plan that their implementation will begin next year, "said A. Nbetov.
it will solve the employment problem, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev has a lot of experience, and he contributed to solving the Iranian nuclear problem.
In general, the opening of this monument in the capital is very important for the Turkic countries, "said a Turkologist, professor of Zholdasbek.
According to Askar Yeszhanov, this year 7.1 billion tenge will be allocated from the republican and regional budgets for the development of road infrastructure in Aktobe region.
In turn, Euroopter Kazakhstan Engineering presented a single flight device from central Asia es145 (fnpt iii) at the Kadex-2016 exhibition.
development of friendly and business ties with all foreign partners in the field of defense and security.
As previously reported, to support large projects in 2015, Baiterek holding attracted foreign investments worth $6.75 billion and 120 million euros from international financial organizations and Chinese banks.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan congratulated the head of state on receiving the title of ambassador "expo-2017" and wished him new successes and records.
By presidential decree of November 12, 1993 No. 1399, the national currency - tenge - was put into circulation on November 15, 1993 to strengthen the economic basis of a sovereign state and create an independent monetary system of the republic in Kazakhstan.
During the plenary session of the lower house, the preparation of the conclusion on the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on cooperation in the field of civil defense, prevention and prevention of emergency situations" was discussed.
Let there be a holiday, "said the akim of the region.
Our Kazakhstan is a great steppe country, a country that transformed the great steppe!
at the same time, the government was instructed to prepare its development.
He noted that the active participation of the Polish community in political, social and economic life plays an important role in strengthening friendly relations between the two countries.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that despite the difficulties in the world economy and international policy, the country has developed steadily, developed a corresponding anti-crisis strategy and ends this year with positive indicators.
The amount of financing under the Employment Roadmap 2020 in 2015 amounted to 188.8 million tenge.
Note that this agreement was concluded in 2013 in the capital between Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic.
we have signed an agreement on in-depth partnership and cooperation with the European Union.
According to Ekdb, Kazakhstan is one of the first Central Asian countries worthy of investments that meet the criteria for investment, "said A. Preymanis.
Our main goal is to save budget funds, implement concession projects through attracting investments from public-private and international financial institutions, the head of the region said in his report.
It is worth noting that the agreement was concluded in the amount of 13.6 billion tenge.
interconnection of mega-projects will allow the region to present an effective and balanced model of global economic development, "he said.
The foreign expert considers Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization an important achievement.
exemption from all types of tax payments and staff of section associations and employees; exemption from customs payments of office associations of the section; providing annual multiple visas to the staff of the section participating in the exhibition, as well as their family members; this agreement provides benefits for the Commissioner's family and section employees; According to the UN Convention on Road Traffic of November 8, 1968, driving certificates of official participants are valid in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. exemption from all kinds of tax payments and fees for the offices of the commissioner of sections and staff members ; exemption from customs duties for the offices of the section commissioner ; issuing free reusable annual visa to the whole staff of the section of the exhibition , including the members of their families ; this agreement provides the preferential treatment for family members of the section commissioner , and for their employees ; the official driving licenses of the participants will be recognized on the territory of kazakhstan , issued in the countries - participants of the un convention on road traffic of 8 november 1968 .
the people of Kazakhstan are a source of state power and sovereignty.	the expert noted that the people of kazakhstan - source of the state power and sovereignty .	1,21
for the main products, we cover 95-96%, "said Mr. Isaeva.
The next domestic enterprise that will evaluate the products of Kadex-2016 participants and guests is Kazakhstan Wonderful Engineering.
Recall that today the Astana Economic Forum started in the capital.
According to M.Dirholm, vestas specialists installed more than 40 thousand wind generators with a capacity of 41 thousand. MW in more than 60 countries worldwide.
We are confident that the European Union and its member States will make a significant financial and practical contribution to the further development of this country. "
so the voice of each of you is important.
coverage of the population with natural and accessible products is the main goal of the region. providing the natural and affordable food - an important task for our region .
The visit of the Secretary of State to Washington ends with a festive event dedicated to the March holiday, which will be attended by representatives of the White House, the State Department, Congress, as well as business and public circles, and the diplomatic corps.
and to develop our cooperation with Kazakhstan, to work together in the south and south directions.
the main areas are reducing demand for drugs, international cooperation, reducing risk in the world community, "said M. Demeuov.
Since the implementation of the project, key issues of the development of the region have been touched upon, "said R. Amirzhanov.
the loan amount will increase from 60 to 85 million tenge.
During the event, the Kazakh diplomat told the participants about the international initiatives of Kazakhstan, including those voiced at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, and also invited him to take part and visit the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in Astana.
Co-Chair of the International Program Committee wsec-2017, President of the National Engineering Academy of Kazakhstan, happy zhumagulov discussed EXPO-2017 in the framework of the forum.
the director of the film is a laureate of the State Prize of the Russian Federation, the People's Artist of Russia is Sergey Snezhkin (White Guard, Brezhnev, Color Calendar, Women's Novel, etc.).
According to the Minister, the transition to a 12-year educational program will be carried out for 4 years.
he also noted that the president of our country "is peace. Twenty-first Century, "as well as new steps in the fight against the illicit production and sale of drugs.
During the conversation, issues of preparation for the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital were discussed.
The event dedicated to the development of domestic tourism, together with other regions of Kazakhstan and foreign countries, will bring more than 500 investors in the hospitality industry, tourism specialists, the business community, governments and educational institutions, protected areas, enterprises and manufacturers, the report said.
He noted Kazakhstan's readiness to continue joint work with the UN on such issues as strengthening human rights, the role of women in society and protecting their rights, the economy, environmental protection, deepening cooperation in the use of green technologies, as well as expanding cooperation in the field of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
As the participants of the meeting noted, the ank will become one of the new drivers of growth of the country's economy.
- How will the products be sold?
on the Turkish side were representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Trade, the Ministry of Navigation and Communications, the International Transportation Association, the Turkish Chamber of Commerce and the Exchange Union, the Consulate General of the Republic of Turkey in Aktau.
we are engaged in wheat and crop production in the arched district of Akmola region. we are engaged in grain and vegetable growing in arshaly district , akmola region .
Within the framework of the meeting, the commission discussed topical and promising areas of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Switzerland in the fields of investment and trade, regulation and supervision of audit and accounting activities, agriculture, education and science, as well as issues of cooperation in the field of law within the framework of eidu.
In general, this project will be implemented in accordance with the law on the state border of Kazakhstan of January 2013 and will not require additional financial costs from the state budget, "said the deputy chairman of the National Security Committee of Kazakhstan Darkhan Dilmanov.
livestock and crop production - 1.8 billion tenge, entrepreneurial lending in the regions - 5.5 billion tenge, "he said.
I am watching promising initiatives and the opinion of the President of Kazakhstan last year.
now we are preparing a 45-apartment house. currently we are preparing five 45-apartment houses .
but this is only 30-40% of the market, the rest are private sales.
the world. XXI century, "as can be seen from the capital, the capital of Kazakhstan, to achieve a safe environment for peace.
all this has a positive effect on citizens. " Merkel.
I am sure that the new elections will have a great impact on the stability of our state.
Almaty is given special attention here, "the akim noted.
today all the developed countries of the world are implementing their modernization projects on the basis of the already established identity.
In 2015, bilateral trade amounted to 3 billion US dollars.
I think that everything will be decided correctly, "said Vytautas naudujas.
The interlocutors discussed topical issues of the development of bilateral relations and the international agenda and clarified the successful interaction of the two states on the implementation of economic agreements in the context of commodity and technological partnership, Germany's participation in the Expo 2017 exhibition held in the capital, as well as the introduction of the German dual education model in Kazakhstan.
yang jechi expressed gratitude for accepting the invitation to the g20 summit, which will be held in September this year in Hangzhou, attaches great importance to the participation of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in this regard, I express my gratitude to the entire deputy corps, employees of the Senate and advisory apparatus for their constructive work and invaluable contribution to the prosperity of our state.
at the first stage - the independent budget and creation of full private self-government at the level of the city of regional value, the village, the settlement and the rural district.
Iranian and Kazakh relations have a high degree.
Also, according to the speaker, this year the savings of the financial side during the competition were realized.
in the form of reports to the head of state on the implementation of the industrial development program of the region, the investment program in the special economic zone "South" and the main indicators of the activities of light industry facilities.
the Chinese side expressed interest in the construction of transport infrastructure of the city, smart city and participation in the celebration of the 1000th anniversary of Almaty.
anyone can get full information about the work of the commission, "said B. Sagintayev.
on the contrary, we have found a common language and understand each other.
Kazakhstan entered the WTO, the Eurasian Economic Union began to function, this year our country entered the top 50 leading exporters in the world, where it took 43rd place. kazakhstan has joined the wto , the eurasian economic union has started to operate , this year our country has entered the top 50 leading exporters in the world , ranking the 43rd placement .
if now a graduate of grades 9-11 has the right to fall into the category of "1st," 2nd "and" 3rd. "
In addition, the transfer of technologies is not only for creating a site, but also for gaining experience in agricultural management, for example, consultations, knowledge, scientific research and other areas, and all this is in great demand in our country, "he said.
oil prices remain as low as possible, and Kazakhstan's economy is heavily dependent on oil resources.
Over the past year alone, more than 3 thousand drug crimes were identified, including 2000 sales facts, 35 tons of narcotic drugs were seized, including 140 kg of heroin, the minister said.
That is, we see that the amendments gave a new impetus to the campaign. so , it is clear that the amendments have given new momentum to the action .
we have the moral right to appeal the world, we have the right to live in peace, because the Nevada-Semipalatinsk "amber movement" has appeared on our land, he said.
the program is aimed at reforming the country's economy and reducing the shortage of social housing.
It is pleasant that such a large-scale forum involves powerful international concerns, for example, airbus, talgo. the forum is attended by powerful international concerns , for example , " aigbus , " " talgo . "
we plan to discuss opportunities and experience of diversification of Kazakhstan, investment opportunities of the country will also be discussed.
secondly, food security.
separate quotas will be provided for such priority projects as the construction of expo, "explained the head of the department for working with employers attracting foreign workers from the employment, labor and social protection department of Astana.
Bulgaria is known as a tourist country, and we must expand this environment.
the head of state noted effective joint projects over the years of interaction and thanked simonelism for participating in the next meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors.
today our society is diverse, diversified, a lot of opinion.
Do not stop believing in surprise, "said a resident of the capital.
The event was attended by Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Austrian Republic, President of Kazakhfilm JSC named after Aymanov.
fifth.
In this regard, the policy of the head of state is very appropriate, "said R. Sarsembayev.
Election Day. the election day has started .
if we work at this rate, we will make a significant contribution to the country's economy.
As you know, Asian states play a big role in fisu decisions. as you know , asian countries play an important role in the decisions of the fisu .
there is a declaration of independence, and its protection, strengthening and development is even more responsible.
Currently, the issue of including guide guides and apartments in the recommended by expo-2017 program is being considered.
The participants of the meeting expressed confidence that this strategic document will bring Kazakhstan to new development goals.
we will fully fulfil our obligations to the people. " Nazarbayev.
This will allow business to implement socially significant projects on mutually beneficial terms by creating long-term cooperation with the state in all sectors of the national economy.
the unity of the people of Kazakhstan makes political sense, because, as we all know, the strength of unity is in the unity of the people. the unity of peoples of kazakhstan has political importance , because we know that the strength is in unity , the unity of the people .
The launch of the intelsat dla-2 spacecraft with a proton launch vehicle is scheduled for June 81, 2016 (the main date), from the launch complex at the 8th site of the Baikonur cosmodrome - at 13:10 Moscow time (reserve dates - June 9-11 of this year).
This year we expect at least one participant, "said A. Sadvakasova.
we gladly agreed to support this project and created a site. we are pleased to take an active part in this project .
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan thanked for the high level of organization of the meeting and invited kh.rukhanidi to visit the country on an official visit.
Specific information about this is contained in the materials of our work, "said A. Sekeshev.
From the business delegations of the Spaniards came more than 20 companies that are interested in cooperation in the framework of investments, transport technologies and public-private partnerships, as well as in construction, renewable energy, transport, infrastructure facilities, telecommunications, agriculture.
Today, new schools, kindergartens, recreation camps, gyms, health facilities, sports facilities are being built in the republic, "said Z. Baliev.
G. Gref thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his constant attention to the development of the banking sector.
the business council will enhance the relationship between the legislative and executive branches. the business council will have any interaction with the legislative and executive authorities .
The main event of the forum will be the investment summit of Kazakhstan, co-organized by the world-famous magazine the economist. the key event of the forum will be the kazakhstan investment summit , organized in cooperation with the world magazine the economist .
special attention was paid at the meeting to the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to support peace and develop stability.
Medical Officer of the General Medical Faculty of the Metropolitan Medical University:
Four years ago, we proposed the g-global initiative aimed at mobilizing the anti-crisis efforts of all countries.
previously successfully launched into space spacecraft "resource-pc," "resource-p" No. 1 and "resource-p" No. 2.
board members highly appreciate your leadership. your leadership in the work of the council is highly appreciated by its members .
but there is no other way, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
according to him, first of all, it is necessary to reduce the time and simplify the procedures for implementing business projects.
According to K. Tokayev, Kazakhstan is interested in strengthening parliamentary ties with the Netherlands - its major trade, economic and investment partner.
then they will be divided into minimum categories on a competitive basis, "the minister said.
The interlocutors noted the important potential of legal cooperation between the two countries in the framework of countering terrorism, ensuring national and international security, rapid exchange of information and experience.
On February 16, under the chairmanship of the President of Kazakhstan, a meeting will be held on the development of the city of Almaty and preparations for the 28th World Winter Universiade 2017.
A new European technology has been applied in production, which fully automates the processing of raw materials, "he said.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan met with local food producers and representatives of small and medium-sized businesses of the region.
The head of state noted that there are a number of joint projects in the field of railway engineering, oil and gas, communications and construction, which are a significant basis for expanding cooperation.
According to the Ministry, in 2015, 17.5 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund for the construction of engineering and communication infrastructure in the Republic of Kazakhstan, of which 97% of this amount was spent last year by the akimat.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has made a significant impetus in historical development, "N. Nazarbayev said.
from the bottom of my heart I congratulate all compatriots, all Kazakhstanis. i congratulate all kazakhstanis .
He also noted that these funds will be used to develop road and social infrastructure, increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized businesses, modernize education and health systems, optimize the administration of customs and tax systems, and promote environmental protection.
We expect that this year the number of participants will be increased, "he said. Arykbaev.
As part of the exhibition, a roadmap will be signed with the Russian Helicopters holding.
The address of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on November 30, 2015 once again noted the high level of Kazakhstan in Central Asia. message from the president underlined the high status of kazakhstan in central asia .
today, the presence of nuclear weapons is a threat to global stability. today , the existence of nuclear weapons - is a threat to global stability .
As akim of East Kazakhstan region noted, project iidmb 45 produced products worth 335 billion tenge and created 7 thousand jobs.
For our country, this is an important object built by domestic manufacturers and engineers. it is an important object created by domestic manufacturer , our engineers .
Members of the Kha delegation from all regions of the country, members of the regional ethnocultural center, public figures, scientists and creative intelligentsia, international observers and foreign parks take part in it.
lending to the development fund will save jobs.
so far, our trade and economic ties are at a low level. our trade and economic relations remain at a low level .
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan influences the growth of international authority of Kazakhstan as a multinational country. the activities of the assembly of people of kazakhstan contribute to the growth of the international authority of kazakhstan as a multiethnic country , which successfully solves the problem of interethnic relations .
prospects for the development of Kazakh-Polish economic, industrial-innovative and agrarian cooperation, new goals in the field of transport and logistics, tourism, ecology, housing and production, the interest of Polish business in the second phase of privatization in Kazakhstan laid the foundation for the meeting of the commission and determined its agenda, the report said.
- Director of the legal department of odyssey investments group in Astana;
our specialists got acquainted with the work of factories in countries such as Europe, Ukraine. our experts have visited all the best poultry farms of the world - in europe , ukraine .
the Eurasian region is the main geopolitical and geoeconomic factor of world politics. the eurasian region is a key geo-economic and geopolitical factor in world politics .
that problem could be resolved only through the joint strength of the international community. this problem can only be solved through joint efforts of the international community .
To intensify work in this direction, government and regional councils will be created, "he said.
In conclusion, the authors wished Nursultan Nazarbayev and our country to achieve all good goals for the future of our Motherland.
including educational facilities - 40, health care - 1, culture - 8, sports - 2, agriculture - 2, in the field of public services - 1, social security - 1, the number of residential buildings - 17, infrastructure systems - 6, in the development of single-industry towns - 1 object will be transferred for the benefit of the country, - said in a statement.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that at a new stage it is necessary to adapt to life in conditions of low prices for raw materials, actively continue industrialization, development of small and medium-sized businesses.
- There are a lot of New Year celebrations in the world.
In addition, in January this year, the company "kazakhstan de li optoelectronics" was included in the industrialization map of Almaty region at the final meeting of the district coordinating council.
we grew and matured, "the deputy added.
The Czech Minister commended the economic development and modernization of Kazakhstan.
this is a large-scale privatization and the arrival of many transnational companies in our economy.
Kazenergoproyod LLP is located in the city of Semipalatinsk, East Kazakhstan Region.
According to the Minister, in 2015 770.1 billion tenge was allocated from the National Fund of Kazakhstan for the implementation of this program, of which 705.3 billion tenge or 90% of the star plan was used at the end of the year.
There is weak integration in the global production of Kazakhstan's global chain, "B.Sagintayev said.
the results of the work will be reflected at the next meeting of the public council in September.
guests determined the dynamics of cooperation between the city of Almaty and the Kingdom of Denmark.
we referred these documents to the crirsco committee. the documents were submitted to crirsco committee and approved .
During the conversation, the parties discussed the prospects of bilateral relations and cooperation within the framework of international organizations.
In order to avoid emergency situations, all parking spaces on bus lane lanes will be dismantled, "said the deputy head of the Administrative Police Department of Astana, nurlan uvuev.
We expect more than 100 countries to take part in the exhibition, "he said.
All laws in general are aimed at the further development of the country's economy and the modernization of our society, "he said.
What is your opinion on this strategic document?
The ceremony of awarding the winners of the Prize of the President of Kazakhstan "Golden Quality," the republican competition-exhibition "Best Product of Kazakhstan" and the competition of social responsibility of business "paryz-2015" was also held.
At the end of 2016, metallurgy is expected to grow by at least 2%, metal ore production by 5%, "A. Issekeshev said.
to date, 6800 candidates have been nominated (as of February 10).
Of course, I wish peace and harmony, prosperity of the state and development of Kazakhstan's science.
in a short time, a lot of work has been done to strengthen statehood, create a modern market economy and modernize society, "the head of state said.
This initiative of the head of state immediately received the support of the world community. this initiative immediately brought attention worldwide .
they produce carbonated soft drinks "Koka-kola Almaty bottlers" glass processing plant LLP "Kss-capital," LLC "Production Innovation Company" Yutaria Ltd "" kaztekhpo "automated trade and production complex, production of electronic and optical means" Kazakhstan "light engineering" and metal fencing and sandwich "- a spencer plant.
The meeting was attended by the heads of the foreign affairs departments of Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, the general secretary of the shu and the director of the executive committee of the regional anti-terrorist structure shu.
there are patrons who help organize these events, the main thing is our assembly, gives us education, "he said.
the document defines promising trends in the development of Kazakhstan.
At the end of the trip, the Secretary of State will take part in the festive evening "Martyr Meirama" with the participation of representatives of the White House, State Department, Congress, business elite, diplomatic corps and public groups.
our countries are successfully working in such areas as agriculture and energy, "he said.
we were informed about the electoral process and also discussed important issues about the upcoming elections. we were informed on the election procedure , we have discussed important issues concerning the elections .
Sixth, the drivers of economic growth are new sectors of the economy created within the framework of innovative industrialization in Kazakhstan.
the meeting was attended by the general manager of the Singapore Public Service College for East and Central Asia, the Latin American edison ngo department, the director of the temasek foundation and representatives of the Academy of Public Administration.
- Certainly, in conditions of economic risks and global crisis, President Nazarbayev's economic policy.
Note that the political party will pay 342,885 tenge to each candidate.
On the eve of the holiday on March 4, the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev held a meeting with representatives of the female community of Kazakhstan "spring noise," the press service of the akorda reports.
Mr. Abdykalikova "Welcome, summer!" The children attended an entertainment program.
Today Kazakhstan is an authoritative player on the world stage.
The meeting discussed the development of the Eurasian Economic Union, the expansion of economic relations of the association with third countries, as well as the strategy of joint actions of the member countries of the Eurasian Union in the current situation in global markets.
products of the plant are exported to the markets of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, except for the Karaganda, East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, Aktobe, North Kazakhstan, Kostanay and Aktobe regions.
secondly, it saves budget funds.
The President of Ukraine thanked Kazakhstan for the warm welcome and negotiations during his official visit.
in addition, he met with the chairman of the constitutional council i.r., the chairman of the supreme judicial council a.somolin.
the adopted budget of Almaty-2020 "and is aimed at the social conditions of Almaty residents and a decent standard of living in the city.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on topical issues of international cooperation in the judicial and legal sphere between Kazakhstan and the European Union, as well as strengthening practical interaction in the exchange of experience between the Central Asian regions and European countries.
- Previously everyone chose professions of economists, international lawyers, finance, management.
In all specific sectors, transport, energy and industrial projects, 8,700 small, medium and large companies have been supported in 6 years. totally in the real sector , taking into account the transport , energy and industrial projects more than 8,700 small , medium and large companies were supported in 6 years .
there are two bartec plants in the world that produce this type of cable.
the competition consisted of two stages: inside a higher educational institution and a republican one.
To date, 11 out of 73 projects worth 100 billion tenge have been implemented in the industrial zones of the region and cities.
to do this, we constantly increase investment attractiveness.
In 2015, 5 projects worth 443.2 billion tenge were implemented.
Funds are allocated annually from the national budget for the holding of this award. every year the state budget allocates money to hold this award .
the message should be the basis for action for all party members and a program for the coming years.
I am 100 percent sure that Kazakhstan will succeed, "said a.ambetov.
gennady golovkin is our pride, all Kazakhstanis cheer for him. gennady golovkin is our pride , the whole kazakhstan cheers for you .
the Kazakh satellite "kazeosat-2" was created by the British company "sstl," which is the main subcontractor of the French company "ads."
In addition, the head of state stressed the need to further strengthen cooperation in this area.
work is being carried out on quality services for tourists arriving in Kazakhstan. work to improve service , provide quality services for tourists entering in kazakhstan are being conducted .
the total birth rate was 23.04 (22.41) born per 1000 people, "the report said.
Recall, on November 30 of this year, the President of Kazakhstan sent a message to the people of Kazakhstan.
The work of the national commission had been established within the framework of new reforms, and an important task lay ahead to maximize the participation of women in all socio-political and economic spheres of the country.
Chairman of the Board of Kazgeologiya JSC in Tehran met with Director General of Iran minerals production and supply co. Jafar, advisor to President Imidro M. Taher, management of ghadir investment co and representatives of other major mining companies of the Islamic Republic of Iran to develop a roadmap for cooperation in the development of the mining and geological industry.
M. Nursleuov, noting Kazakhstan's global decision on peace and security, informed the Finnish side about the international initiatives of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
our branches are decided by candidates, they are nominated for local maslikhats, a list is approved at the congress, which will be included in the meeting, "he said.
Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Elzhan Birtanov announced the results of the project of the State Program for Health Development of Kazakhstan "Health" for 2016-2019.
The implementation of a large-scale export-oriented project of milker LLP worth 8.2 billion tenge was launched, producing 11,680 tons of milk from 1280 heads of milker cow per year.
85 billion tenge will be allocated for the timely completion of construction of facilities for EXPO-2017.	according to the minister , for timely completion of the expo facilities , 85 billion tenge will be allocated in 2017 .	1,22
What is sustainable development?	in general , what is sustainable development ?	1,23
this is a real recycling.	this is the real processing .	1,23
most often they live in the Karaganda, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan and Akmola regions, "he said.
According to the Secretary of State, Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for this.
According to him, today in Kazakhstan there are 1 million 440 thousand women in the business sector.
fourth.
During the meeting with the vice-president of the Asian Development Bank, the parties discussed the prospects for further development of cooperation in the field of road transport infrastructure, road safety, and the development of a sustainable transport system in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
We assume that the deal will be closed in September of this year, and this issue will be resolved, "said D. Usherov.
after EXPO, a number of facilities will allow placing all the bodies of the financial center of the international capital. "
young masters made collages, applications, ornaments, sculptures, kitchen objects, etc.
the organizers of the event prepared letters and valuable prizes in nominations for anti-corruption themes "best video," "best work," "best picture."
According to him, this figure remains high among all countries of the European Union.
Owners of the best production enterprises: Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant JSC, North Kazakhstan Region, Almaty, Kazakhstan Pipeline Valves Plant LLP.
expo 2017 information matrices on the theme "energy of the future" are widely covered at the exhibition site of Kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of this year, oil prices have fallen sharply over the past 12 years - to $28 per barrel. since the beginning of this year , there is a sharp drop in oil prices - less than 28 dollars per barrel .
Within the framework of the conference, issues of cooperation and expansion of partnership between the EU and Kazakhstan, non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017, the investment situation in Kazakhstan and bilateral Kazakh-Spanish relations were discussed, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
"We use modern technologies to build this complex," said the general director of the Yutaria Ltd group of companies in an exclusive interview strategy2050.kz ray shauen.
I want to pay special attention to the fact that the cost of housing should be social in nature, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in order for the land to be profitable, it must be privately owned, "he said.
This year we also saw the dynamics of growth in driver's license services, "he said.
the new situation, including the economic situation, required prompt and effective decisions.
thanks to everyone for the interesting discussion and new views, "said Dr. Nazarbayev.
As M. Salchi noted, the creation of the international financial center "capital" is a large-scale measure.
At the same time, the joint projects of the Israeli agency for international cooperation "machav" and "kazagroinnovation" noted that the development of drip irrigation technologies for agriculture is not only important in Kazakhstan, but is also important in other countries of Central Asia.
As part of the public-private partnership, 1615 preschool places were opened in Kostanay in 2015, the akim said.
A very stubborn step in a changing world, "he said.
our country has two full-fledged space systems: space communications and remote sensing of the Earth.
So, students of the 1st grade of schools will switch to a 5-day school year, starting this year, and not from 2017.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that over the years of independence the republic has made an incredible leap from the point of view of historical development.
During a meeting with the president of primetals technologies, it was proposed to consider new large-scale projects in the metallurgical industry.
green press "in four categories: the best television set, program, article in the publishing house, article on the Internet resource.
Kazakhstan is interesting to foreign researchers. "
Within the framework of the convention, a working breakfast was held on the theme "Silk Road" and "Expo-2017," as well as a business lunch dedicated to Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
when the earth finds its owner, but it will be fertile, "he said.
besides our country, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan are permanent participants in the Almaty process.
Today, Kazakhstan is the leading country in central Asia and is respected in international society.
As you know, public councils have been created in all regions of the country as part of the 99 step of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
The main purpose of the visit was the signing of an agreement on military and Ascrean-technical cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
small and medium-sized businesses are of particular importance during this difficult period. during this difficult period the small and medium business plays particular importance for the economy .
In 2015, Kazakhstan was one of the 50 best exporters and took 43rd place.
it is the merit of your leaders.
the second part is related to energy. the second set of issues , which we are discussing , concerns the area of energy .
The Chairman of the Majilis also noted that Kazakhstan is interested in strengthening cooperation in all areas of Turkp.
In this regard, the visit of the Minister for Foreign and European Affairs of Slovakia Miroslav Lajčak, which he plans to visit the capital this year, will give a significant impetus for this work, "the statement said.
k.elimbetov also met with the heads of the British banking sector, the head of the green investment bank, the British representative office at Expo 2017, the heads of the Institute of Directors of the London Stock Exchange and the Iron Exchange.
President x. he highly appreciates the role and initiatives of spiritual Kazakhstan in ensuring international security and cooperation, as well as the significant contribution to the process of reaching international agreement in Vienna on the Iranian nuclear program.
products of the plant are used by Almaty Light Company LLP and Elektrokabel LLP.
It is no secret that a number of external factors affect our economy. our economy is affected by several external factors , including the decline in commodity prices .
First of all, we are trying to increase productivity. we have been working on the implementation of the project for just 1 year .
The agreement was signed on October 16, 2015 in the village of Burabai by the leaders of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, the Russian Federation. the bill was considered in the framework of the agreement signed between the heads of 5 countries , which was signed in october 2015 between kazakhstan , armenia , russia , tajikistan and uzbekistan .
I entrust the Government with developing a new concept for the formation and use of the national fund in the new global reality.
Drawing attention to the fact that Kazakhstan is an important part of the parliamentary ecu assembly, Christine noted the special role of our country in establishing dialogue between countries, nationalities and various groups.
there should be national holdings, banks, small and medium-sized businesses.
I thank the President of Kazakhstan for the clear and correct decision, which plays a crucial role for Iran. i congratulate mr. president of kazakhstan on his undoubted success , on the concrete results , which are important for iran .
In 1908-1910, 1 million 150 thousand people were resettled from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus to Kazakhstan.
The Minister of Energy of Mongolia was presented with strategic programs for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Mongolian, including the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," "nұrly zhol," "100 steps of implementing 5 institutional reforms," the message of the head of state of November 30, 2015 "Kazakhstan is a new global climate: growth, reform, development."
according to the extraordinary elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan - 9 million 889 thousand 075 pieces, according to the regular elections of deputies of the maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan - 18 million 321 thousand 969 pieces of ballots, "said the deputy chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan.
in this regard, we have completed part of the work.
In addition, in January of this year, the contact center proposed reporting an unreasonable increase in food prices by installing the hashtag # astana a109 on Facebook and Instagram.
The main projects: the construction of a 1,500-seat correctional institution in Shymkent, the construction of a 300-bed hospital in whitewash, a children's hospital in Semipalatinsk, the construction of an innovation cluster at the al-Farabi Kazakh National University, "he said.
our businessmen will be able to see what opportunities for the development of cooperation are in western Kazakhstan, "said the French ambassador.
member of the board (minister) for energy and infrastructure of the Eurasian Economic Commission, doctor of political science tair mansurov and secretary of the board of the Writers' Union of Kazakhstan, editor-in-chief of the Kazakh literary journal "expanse" valery mikhailov.
During the year, the foundation not only implemented competitive programs for the presentation of prizes, scholarships and grants, but also presented new programs, such as the new Golden Crowd literary award, the results of which will be published in December, "said Nurakhanov.
parties should receive a new mandate of trust from their constituents. " klimenko.
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Defense and Security ikram Aydyrbekov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbayev and Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports of the Azilkhans spoke at the meeting.
the secretariat of the regional branch of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the regional prosecutor's office, departments of justice, internal affairs, the department of education, the union of judges, the college of lawyers, the notary chamber, the public association "Union of mediators," the union of professional mediators "coordination," "Mediation and restoration of justice" "tura bi" "heads of regional branches of the public association" big country - big family "Within the framework of the national project, a memorandum of cooperation was signed with the aim of integrating into specific cases to reduce conflict situations through mediation.
Since January 1 of this year, the wages of health workers have grown by an average of 28%, education - by 29% and social protection - by 40%. as you know , since january 1 , the salaries of health workers have been increased by an average of 28 % , education workers - up to 29 % , social protection - up to 40 % , social benefits for disability grants , the loss of income have been increased by 25 % , " - he told .
Finland holds a leading position in the world in energy and technology cleanliness.
In 2016, 900.0 million tenge was allocated for the maintenance of national roads. in 2016 , 900 million tenge has been allocated for the maintenance of the roads of the national importance in zhambyl region .
I think our strategy will be a good opportunity for all investors, "said A. Sekeshev.
Kazakhstan became the first country in Central Asia, "he said.
The project "Construction of a plant for the production of high-quality lime in the Osakarovsky district of global lime industries" is presented on the regional map.
One of the significant events of the outgoing year was the entry of Kazakhstan into the world trade organization. one of the landmark events of the year became kazakhstan 's accession to the world trade organization .
we are investing all efforts and, I think, we will finish according to the plan, "said the deputy general director for construction of Kazakhstan Aviation Industry LLP syrymbov saduakas.
During the meeting, the participants discussed the prospects of trade, economic, investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and the countries of Central Asia, as well as strengthening regional integration.
this is an economic association with uniform rules for the movement of goods, services, capital, labor resources. this is an economic union with single rules for movement of goods , services , capital and labor resources .
the document provides for legal mechanisms for the practical use of the results of space activities in the fields of economics, civil defense, the environment, geodesy and cartography, architecture and urban planning, "the statement said.
In addition, today the discussion of elections on social networks follows the hashtag # sailau2016.
Today, cooperation only between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan is at a high level, but we are ready to continue cooperation in the field of business and trade. at the meeting with the secretary of state we talked about the present state of cooperation between kazakhstan and ghana which is at a very high level , but of course , it has perspectives for growth .
this program will be aimed at approving and developing the results achieved and solving problems in the industry in accordance with the new challenges, and will also serve as the basis for the systematic development of the industry until 2050. "- the head of the department noted that the new program is aimed at improving the quality and accessibility of medical services, improving the efficiency of management and financing of the system, as well as the effective use of available resources.
b.Zhumakhanov informed the other side about trends of political and economic modernization of Kazakhstan and development of transport potential of the country.
the Ministry of Finance and I started this work. the ministry of national economy of kazakhstan and the ministry of finance has already started this work .
among them are delegates elected at conferences in all regions of the republic, heads of state administration bodies, national holdings, figures of education, science, culture and sports, representatives of the diplomatic corps, non-governmental and youth organizations, and primary party organizations.
concepts of cultural policy, state development and functioning of languages, educational program.
The Development Fund subsidizes the interest rate of the enterprise under the state program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
The meeting was also attended by heads of state bodies, large companies and financial institutions of the two countries.
6 political parties submitted their political lists.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the main areas of bilateral cooperation, including in the trade, economic, political, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
Yuri Sinyavsky spoke about the goals of his work, the welfare of astronauts, technologies, the principles of cooking, food security.
we are very responsible for this, understanding the essence and significance of the event, "said the president of the company.
Kostanay, Aktobe and West Kazakhstan regions participate in the project together.
Kazakh dances "kamazhay," "bird," "asatayak," which received vision in the capital's breitenbach theater, "the Foreign Ministry said in a press release.
the service life of these materials is 25 years.
the legislative framework will be formed, the budget will be determined, we ourselves will make decisions in the social and economic spheres.
I congratulate you and wish you success, "the Governor said at the meeting with the teachers.
Recall that the 7th mining forum of Central Asia is taking place in the capital.
in this case we have to provide big human, material and financial resources for elections, and at this time we have to implement the program "nrla zhol".
any country should be proud of such documents, "he said.
Akmola region has great potential to attract investment in the economy and is ready to consider any proposals for expanding cooperation.
Almaty municipal enterprise Almaty Thermal System LLP, Almaty Power Plant, Almaty Thermal Energy Communes got acquainted with the production potential of white guests.
According to him, this year, thanks to the support of the state, the construction of another 28 schools will begin, some of which will be completed this year, some until 2017.
over the past four years, Kazakhstan's funds for scientific research amounted to 20 billion tenge, "N. Zhumagulov said.
The people who survived this together are always peaceful, strong, "he said.
this highway is part of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor.
Every resident of the republic is proud to be a citizen of the country. "
In 2016, budget revenues will amount to 3 trillion 655 billion tenge, in 2017 - 3 trillion 867 billion tenge, in 2018 - 4 trillion 195 billion tenge, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy Marat Kusain.
however, the peaceful voice of Nursultan Nazarbayev is very valuable, "said the Russian expert.
Within the framework of the unified program of entrepreneurship development "Business Roadmap-2020" in the district in 2012-2015, 8 projects were implemented for a total amount of 1404.0 million tenge.
Therefore, I am sure that this initiative will lead us to the right path, "said the chairman of the" young homeland. "
we are always ready to cooperate with you on the way to a bright future for the Kazakhstani people, "said the leo Muhammadiul.
today we launched this tool in pilot mode and began using it in hardware meetings. today we have launched this tool in a pilot mode and already started to use it on our apparatus meetings .
our agency is engaged not only in attracting new investors, but also in post-investment support. our agency attracts new investors , we are also engaged in post-investment support .
the Government must work with our colleagues to address these issues, making them useful to all of us.
According to the head of state, the age difference for members of the government is not an obstacle.
its members are working to eliminate problems by systematically analyzing changes in the economy of the region, prioritizing projects and a regional development strategy, and solving issues of socio-economic development.
monitoring covered 48 republican newspapers, 15 magazines and 16 republican television channels, 12 radio channels, 147 regional newspapers and 31 regional channels.
He also noted that Kazakhstan will work on the liberalization of the visa regime with countries with an investment priority.
A. Mamin noted that work on the reconstruction of roads and railways, the modernization of port infrastructure on the facade, the development of the international center for border cooperation "horgos" and a special economic zone is carried out in accordance with the schedule.
according to the expert, taking into account world experience, there are two ways to solve this problem: complete waste treatment and waste disposal; incineration of garbage.
Kazakhstan has made commitments to improve legislation, which provide for: services, licenses and permits, mobilization of foreign jobs, protection of intellectual property rights, privatization and so on, "the minister said.
it promotes mutual understanding and understanding, spiritual value among people. "
Issues of Eurasian integration were also discussed, in particular, the meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council, which is planned to be held in the capital in the future.
It should be noted that the state budget allocated in Almaty and Astana for campaigning events and travel cars of candidates registered in each regional maslikhat in the amount of 250 thousand tenge, and city and district - 153 thousand tenge.
they will be paid for by the regional budget, "Saparbayev said.
According to the publisher, the book was distributed by leading Russian libraries, funds of famous libraries in the UK, Germany, Italy, Spain, Kazakhstan and the CIS countries.
The exhibition is held within the framework of the project "Kazakhstan from the bowels of the ages" and the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, our steps are important for the implementation of five institutional reforms and the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
Today, the global systemic crisis has engulfed all countries of the world. today , the global systemic crisis has affected all countries , even the developed and leading countries .
This time the festival has expanded, young people take part in competitions of creative and intellectual directions. at this time , the festival has been expanded , and the guys will be able to express themselves in creative and intelligent ways .
During the meeting the main directions of the meeting were discussed.
in the future, we want to see Kazakhstan from high heights, from among the developed countries.
Within two days, the implementation of the "uplift" project in the regions, the international experience of an integrated social protection system, as well as proposals to expand the scope of participation of low-income citizens in the pilot project will be considered.
the Baikonur Cosmodrome is an example of a mutually beneficial solution between the two countries.
all election commissions are qualified.
If in 2013 there were 77 trains along this route, then in 2016 there will be 1100, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Fly egypt also intends to operate regular flights to Kazakhstan twice a week since March of this year.
The companies of LCD Nugmanova LLC, LCD Stepynkova, LCD ai-deal and Meaprim solved the problem of lack of collateral as part of the development fund project guarantee tool.
Today Kazakhstan needs a new direction, given the current economic situation, the country needs a new composition, new ideological people.
for example, our athletes, Olympic champions.
Within the framework of the session, a working lunch of the ministry was organized on the topic "Gender and family and demographic policy of Kazakhstan: growth, reform, development."
It is worth noting that the first operation is planned for September 2016, the second - for August 2018.
the armed forces of Kazakhstan took part in three competitions: sailors and marines "on the Caspian Sea," military pilots "on the air map," tankers "on the tank biathlon."
85% of them will be local tourists from the regional and district regions.
According to the document, the goods will be issued only for the Kazakhstan market with reduced obligations.
- Today Kazakhstan is putting forward new initiatives to strengthen peace and stability throughout the world.
this will allow for more flexible monetary policy approaches to ease some of the demand. "
The article of the head of state refers to the continuous modernization of all spheres of society, "the scientist said.
One of the main problems is ensuring business access to financial resources. one of the most pressing issues - access of business to finances .
Saryarka in Karaganda "in 2017, a cartridge plant will be built.
He noted that, as shown in 2014, 2015, the price of a barrel of oil is 52 dollars.
this cooperation contributed to the subsequent proclamation of Central Asia as a region devoid of nuclear weapons, which made the region more stable.
Recall that the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in the capital is one of the most important projects of Kazakhstan.
Thus, during negotiations with the President of the Islamic Development Bank Ahmad Mohammad, topical issues of bilateral and multilateral financial and investment cooperation were still discussed.
According to the head of the national bank, the timing of bank payments has decreased.
The Ambassador noted that the strategy created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev will determine the main path in building a modern effectively prosperous state.
participants in the dialogue paid special attention to the development of transport and transit opportunities in the region, as well as the harmonious addition and prospects of such large projects as the Kazakhstan infrastructure development program "nұrly zhol," the Chinese program "economic belt of the silk road," the road corridor "Western Europe - Western China," etc.
The Secretary of State expressed gratitude to the Irish side for supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
The program of the upcoming event is rich and includes a business forum, an industry meeting in the v2v format, meetings of sellers and buyers, as well as joint meetings of the Chamber of National Business Trade Councils in Kazakhstan, the report said.
Note that the component of the "big lords" is implemented as part of the "Business Roadmap 2020."
now the approach to vocational guidance is very important. now the method of vocational orientation is very important .
Our country implements a large world exhibition Expo-2017, a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
- Large projects are postponed during unfavourable situations in infrastructure and construction projects.
the committee is ready to do this work, "said the chairman of the committee on international affairs, defense and security of the maulen ashimbayev.
This was discussed during the visit of the President of Ukraine P. Posposhchenko to the capital in October last year, "he said.
During the meeting, he noted that Kazakhstan is an important political and trade and economic partner of Singapore in Central Asia.
As the doctor of philosophy noted, the movement should be added: "We are not inferior to anyone - neither the owner, nor the owner, nor the brother," "Oyan, Kazakh - noble, Kazakhstani" and "only forward - forward and forward."
Astana Expo-2017, "Chairman of the Board Akhmetzhan Yessimov occupies an excellent place in the world sports ranking" astana pro team "and is a popular brand of Kazakhstan.
Last year, 355.1 billion tenge was invested in fixed assets, of which 24% is in the manufacturing industry, "said the Governor of the region.
Only ten days since the adoption of the State Program for the Development of Education and Science for 2016-2019.
The head of state noted that the development of own production and replacement of imported goods is one of the most important tasks of Kazakhstan's economic policy.
that required the joint and clear work of the entire international community. this requires concerted efforts and cooperation of the entire international community .
During the conversation, the parties discussed the development of bilateral relations.
Assablea of the people of Kazakhstan has achieved its goal. " TV Bei.
why?
- At the same time, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that social assistance should be targeted.
all topics related to the world economic crisis and global security and nuclear weapons.
these programs use best practices in the development of investment projects and programs, present methods and mechanisms for attracting foreign investors, the best project management tools, consider financing procedures for small and medium-sized businesses, issues of infrastructure development and other important sectors of the economy, the press service of the academy reports.
Under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, 2547 people were employed in 2015, 39 social facilities were involved, 454 villagers were given loans worth 854.2 million tenge, 912 unemployed young citizens were sent to youth practice, "said Ruzia Aidasheva.
economic cooperation, protection and promotion of mutual investment, prevention of double taxation.
economic growth, political stability and inter-ethnic harmony have become the main factors in the development of Kazakhstan.
together with the world community for a nuclear-free world, in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
In addition, through Expo, the country will be able to receive new technologies and innovations, and all this will contribute to the development of a green economy.
previously the company operated in Singapore, Malaysia, Egipa, Brazil, South Korea and Kazakhstan.
there are several reasons, firstly, we know the international situation.
it decreased from 10% to 50% compared to 2015 prices, "said larisa park.
the parties will also consider the most relevant international issues on the agenda and aspects of multilateral cooperation within the framework of regional and international organizations.
then, with their consent, we will present the best work of the national company Astana Expo-2017.
The issues of transition from regulation of the economy to protection of competition through antitrust regulation were discussed at a meeting with the chairman of the competition committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Frederick Jenny.
According to the expert, the meaning of the "green economy" is the revival of energy and the economy.
also bypasses Kordai, burns, Chakpak passes and Taraz cities, Kordai, Kulan, Aisha-bibi, Bauyrzhan Momyshuly, Shakpak-ata and the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic.
we plan to expand this event, especially in connection with the attitude of orphans, "said Sofya Bakuridze, chairman of the Club of Ambassadors in Kazakhstan.
In the first quarter of 2016, the volume of industrial production amounted to 84 billion tenge.
Also, the Secretary of State got acquainted with the work of Caspian Plus LLP on the production of various fasteners for the mining and industrial industries as part of the industrial-innovative development program.
I think that this is a new opportunity to develop trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Afghanistan and bring benefits to these two countries, "said the Chairman of the Board of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan.
I encourage young people to learn working professions. i appeal to our young people : actively learn a blue-collar occupation .
firstly, in rural areas, about 7,000 settlements, about 8.0 million people or 45% of the country's population live.
in different years he worked at Kazmunaigaz Uk JSC, Kazkommertsbank JSC and halyk finance JSC, was engaged in the analysis of investment projects and memes (m & a) on mergers and acquisitions, lending to large companies in the field of construction, transportation and logistics, as well as supporting the issue of securities of private companies.
today at the National Museum we present the project "Former images to date."
this industry has exclusive competence in the list of reforms, "the expert said.
According to the press service of kaznex invest ak, today the construction of a coca-cola plant for the production of soft drinks has been completed in the capital.
As the president said, the global crisis is just a threat, as well as a new opportunity. according to the president of kazakhstan , the global crisis is not only a danger , but also new opportunities .
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation in the field of energy security, the oil and gas industry, electricity and environmental protection were discussed.
labor productivity amounted to 66.7 thousand dollars. "
Following the talks, K. Massimov suggested that the clerk continue cooperation as an adviser to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
The head of state emphasizes the role of the UN in issues of disarmament of the world, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
During the meeting, issues of the military-political situation in the region and in the world, measures of joint operational and combat training in 2016-2017, the further development of air defense forces (collective forces), as well as the reorganization of the joint headquarters of the shooters were discussed.
some time ago, I studied the proposals of banks and their business development, as well as the possibilities of the development fund.
therefore, we are talking about informatization.
the parties also discussed issues of ensuring regional security.
Over 25 years of independence and 23 years of establishing diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic, cooperation in all areas has been strengthened. over 23 years of diplomatic relations between the republic of kazakhstan and the czech republic the progress was made in all areas .
Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan a.isekeshev, Chairman of the Committee on Geology and Subsoil Use b.nurabayev.
of which 29 billion 602 million tenge is provided from the republican budget, 24 billion 938 million tenge from the regional budget.
we got a good impression from Almaty and Kazakhstan, "said Marian Dymalsky.
A new project entitled "Free vocational education for all" was also announced.
The creation of aiib will attract additional investment in infrastructure projects in Asia, including Kazakhstan, will complement the activities of multilateral banks such as the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank. "
we use special cars at polling stations. we use special machines at the polling stations .
the geopolitical situation in the world turned out to be difficult. the geopolitical situation has complicated in the world .
the food belt zone mainly supplies meat and meat products, dairy products, honey, eggs, sunflower oil, potatoes and cocoons.
It is planned to sign a memorandum of understanding between Baiterek Holding and the National Development Fund of Iran.
As the head of kaznex invest noted, negotiations on the opening of representative offices have been going on for a long time, now the first steps are being taken.
This year, 94.5 billion tenge was allocated to complete the work of the planned sites.
the idea of a business project should be innovative.
this is the expansion of the poultry farm and the construction of the poultry farm Almaty Bird LLP, "the Governor of the region said.
these are champions of many international tournaments, athletes of the national team of Kazakhstan.
after that, we purchased the equipment and started working, "said the general director of led solution LLP in an interview with strategy2050.kz.
As the head of the National Bank noted, "the priority of the alternative market is that it will be available to all categories of investors and issuers.
3 . The Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall ensure that the rule of law is observed during the implementation of paragraph 1 of this decree.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also held talks with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban.
today we are opening an international exhibition and an international conference for the sixth time. today we open the sixth international exhibition and international conference on occupational safety and health security .
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan and Head of the Regional Center for Preventive Diplomacy (unrcca) for Central Asia petko dragans noted the importance of participating in supporting dialogue between the countries of Central Asia on the basis of the principles of international law and its structures.
According to N. Altaev, 144 enterprises took part in the republican competition "Best Product of Kazakhstan," 48 applications in three nominations "best enterprise of the production direction," "best product for the population," "best production product."
As part of the g-global, a global anti-crisis plan has been developed, which received wide support at the Astana Economic Forum, the President of Kazakhstan said.
we believe that an effective parliament is the main factor in preparing effective legislation to improve the investment climate. we believe that the parliament - is the main factor for the development of effective legislation and the improvement of the investment climate .
The meeting was attended by an adviser to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan anuar kurzhykaev, an adviser to the Ambassador on economic issues Kalvi Normyagi and an adviser to the Ambassador on logistics issues erkki weismann.
we have significant natural resources and land plots for projects, developed industrial and transport infrastructure, cheap electricity, a special economic zone "Pavlodar" with tax benefits, "said bozumbayev.
What are the business interests of the European Union in Kazakhstan? what are the european businessmen interested in ?
let's remember the story. let 's remember the history .
a nation of a united future - one country-one destiny. "
the production site is located on a special economic site "sea whitewash."
the main purpose of this session is to show the role and prospects of further development of antimonopoly regulation and protection of competition in the development of modern economic policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the first show of the capabilities of the new center will be held during the exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Tadeh-2016."
this is a much larger fund for charity.
In Poland, the Senate Marshal noted that President N. Nazarbayev "is peace. XXI century. "
I congratulate everyone on the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan. i congratulate all kazakhstanis on the day of unity of people of kazakhstan .
Recall that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on convening the first session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the sixth convocation.
The document provides for the development of youth of many thousands of states through sports in the moral, aesthetic and intellectual directions, "said K. Valiev.
Also, the Prime Minister of Turkey congratulated the Kazakh people on the beginning of the 25th anniversary of independence and thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his great contribution to strengthening bilateral relations.
32 out of 40 investment projects worth 257.9 billion tenge were implemented during the first five-year period, 1890 jobs were created, "he said.
Following business negotiations, a number of Kazakhstani companies, in particular Novoalzhansky Mill LLP and Nur-kas Ltd LLC, found a direct buyer for their products.
work is also underway to legalize property. the work on the legalization of property is being conducted .
we produce wheat, meat and other agricultural products, "said N.Alashbayev.
farmers of the district supply meat, eggs, flour, bread, fish, vegetables at affordable prices.
in this regard, Kazakhstan, as a deeply integrated country, will experience global trends in the world political, economic and other conditions, "P. Kazantsev said.
Recall that a single contact center has been operating in Kazakhstan since 2013, the main goal - on the procedure for obtaining a public service, for example, the list of documents necessary for obtaining a public service, the time for rendering a public service, the amount of the duty, the authority providing the services, the organization receiving the application and submitting the ready documents, contact details, the procedure for appealing the actions of the service provider and the possibility of obtaining information on the readiness of documents in one place, in a single place.
1.7 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for this.
When there is an economic crisis, any country cannot raise wages, loans and other social payments, "said B. Saparbayev.
As it is noted, over six years 223 projects worth 164 billion tenge have been implemented within the framework of the industrialization map in the region, 13 thousand permanent jobs have been created.
The meeting was attended by the State Secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Abdykalikova, Governor of the South Kazakhstan region B. Atamkulov, President of the Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan Rosa Sarsembayeva, members of the national commission, international organizations, business structures, representatives of civil society and experts.
proof on high-quality silver coins.
The meeting discussed the positive experience of the development of thematic tourist areas of the silk road, the possibility of promoting and marketing effective areas, the legacy of infrastructure, major events in the region, transport areas and other issues.
This year we will carry out a major overhaul of the marine mine, after which sulfur residues will not apply to the environment, "said the head of the Chevron company.
this is the composer's last work.
our meeting is of great importance for interaction on many issues, including within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, exchange of views on the situation in the region and in the world as a whole, "the head of state said.
So, the limited liability partnership "Saryarkaavroprom" together with cmc, iveco, peugeotcitroen signed 8 important documents on the development of the automotive industry, "the Governor of the region said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted with satisfaction the consistent strengthening of cooperation between the two countries in many areas.
this is necessary for the consolidation of energy organizations.
the agency conducts joint seminars, summits, trainings with international organizations and institutions by conducting an examination of world experience and cooperation with European countries in order to improve the legislative framework.
9,840 precinct election commissions, 171 district, 37 city, 16 regional, capital and Almaty cities, as well as 2,160 district election commissions for elections to district maslikhats, 625 district election commissions for elections to city maslikhats and 550 district election commissions for elections to regional maslikhats.
the ambassadors of the European Union, Estonia, Greece, France, Latvia, Italy, Hungary, Poland and Sweden spoke about the history of the creation of the European Union in English, French, German, its achievements and economics, politics, the difference between each EU country.
December is a very important month in the schedule calendar. december is significant and important month , because the independence day of the republic of kazakhstan is approaching .
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the administration of the affairs of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, shall take other measures arising from this decree.
In general, holding early elections at the meeting is advisable and necessary, "the expert said.
I think that the elections will be held at a high level, "he said.
The outpatient clinic for residents of the microdistrict has an oculist, a children's doctor, a neurologist, a dermatologist, a cardiologist, a gynecologist, a surgeon, a traumatologist, a urologist, the report said.
The exhibition includes more than 50 companies from Australia, Belgium, Germany, Kazakhstan, Norway, Russia and Kazakhstan.
consideration of the judicial system of the country is the goal of today's final meeting. "
The participants of the meeting noted the importance of implementing environmental projects for both Kazakhstan and Central Asia and expressed confidence in further strategic cooperation.
G. Abdykalikova presented the possibilities of the new economic program "Nұr zhol," aimed at reducing poverty and unemployment, involving women in the implementation of infrastructure projects.
we used all modern technologies, "said the director of the Utaria Ltd group of companies in an exclusive interview with Shauken ray strategy2050.kz.
both countries are our important allies and partners, "the head of state said.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Spain noted that cooperation in the field of agriculture is planned.
the parties discussed the further expansion and development of the Nazarbayev Shredder program of Kazakh managerial personnel in the German economy and the introduction of a dual system of "vocational education" in Kazakhstan according to the German model of "Nazarbayev Merkel."
According to the Committee on Statistics, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Macedonia in 2015 amounted to $2 million, exports - $0.1 million, imports - $1.9 million.
I don't see anything hectic about it. i do not see any concern on this matter .
In general, 7.5 trillion tenge will be attracted for the implementation of these projects.
it serves as a technology for exploration of mining, minerals, civil engineering and infrastructure, reindeer safety, product testing, mining and measurement in the coke industry.
We helped large investors in the Alakol lake with land, infrastructure issues, now the construction of a five-star hotel is ongoing, and the construction of another one has begun, "he said.
we carefully studied the assessment of the International Exhibition Bureau, which expressed confidence that Astana Expo-2017 will be one of the most successful exhibitions in the last decade.
that would enable the Government to carry out the new tasks.
Akhmetzhan Yessimov, Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017, and Baghdad, Chairman of the Board of Kazpost, took part in the signing ceremony.
In his speech, J. Watson thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for supporting the favorable investment climate in the country and attention to the development of the industry.
secondly, accelerate the implementation of the north-east-south kegoc project in order to reduce energy shortages in southern Kazakhstan.
The draft document outlines the need to eliminate barriers to trade with third countries, ensure their mechanisms for eliminating such barriers by integration associations and international organizations, including mutual understanding, the report said.
The representative office of the Bolashak Center for International Programs in Moscow organized a round table with the assistance of the Kazakh Embassy in Russia.
L. Simonelli thanked the President of Kazakhstan for his adoption and wished success in the effective implementation of the plans created within the framework of the international financial center "Capital."
our composition has been replenished with Armenia and Kyrgyzstan and is gaining momentum in the eo.
in addition, with all the obstacles, the alleged land scheme of the bunkovo landfill was created.
the total amount of the loan amounted to 17.3 billion tenge.
we continue to build industrial facilities and open new markets.
Kazakhstan has accumulated sufficient experience in overcoming economic difficulties.
139,000 tenge - for the speech of the candidate on television with the election program in accordance with the resolution adopted by the Central Election Commission; with a radio program - 82,000 tenge; 178000 tenge - for publication of two articles in print media; to hire premises for meetings with voters - 33,000 tenge; for publication of campaign printed materials - 66,000 tenge; for transportation expenses - 132000 tenge, - said the CEC member T. Okhlopkova.
In the word atataturka, "justice is the foundation of a power."
making this change is not easy, "said V. Kosarev.
In the first 4 months of 2016, more than 400 investors relied on the "one window" for investors, "the report said.
Opening of the academy of international level is very important for Almaty and the country, because it is the first time. the opening of international academy is an important event for almaty and the whole country .
eurokopter Kazakhstan engineering company is the only company in Kazakhstan that sells, assembles and maintains helicopters n-125, n-130, es-145.
one of them is a poultry farm, producing 1.8 million heads of breeding eggs per year, worth 2.5 billion tenge.
We call the twenty-first century not only an era of global challenges, but also an era of young, strong and talented people. we call the xxi century not only the era of global challenges , but also the time of young , energetic and talented people .
we are part of the world community.
The agenda will include issues of business development and support, as well as a campaign to legalize property, the press service of the Prime Minister reports.
our goal is not only to use the experience of the Organization for the Development of Economic Cooperation, but over time to surpass them in terms of indicators, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Of course, such assistance as an investment agreement can be applied to all effective and successful projects aimed at import substitution, he said.
the adopted strategy was an important step of our state on the public path with high political consciousness and civic relevance, "he said.
regional security, protection of citizens' rights and migration policies were also addressed.
show the breadth of national clothing of Slavic, Polish, Jewish, Armenian, Korean, Chechen and other centers.
therefore, we must all rally and help each other, "said the head of state.
We are glad that the association will stimulate the opening of women's business, "he said.
The consultations discussed the results of the recent official visit of the Prime Minister of the Netherlands to Kazakhstan, which confirmed the high level of bilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres. the meeting also discussed the results of the recent official visit of prime minister of the netherlands mark rutte in kazakhstan , which confirmed the high level of the kazakh-dutch cooperation in the political , trade-economic , cultural and humanitarian spheres , " the statement reads .
a district investment commission has been established.
A lot of work has been done with this composition on the regulatory framework to increase civil, social and economic activity of the population, "he said.
parliamentarians must clearly say no to the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
In turn, we are ready to develop an agricultural, transport, logistics and expert system.
Today, Kazakhstan opposes the external tests of the world economy. nowadays kazakhstan successfully opposes to the external challenges in the global economy .
the design cost of the plant is 1 billion 022 million tenge, the annual capacity is 180 thousand tons or 450-500 tons of construction gypsum per day and 100 thousand cubic meters. m of gypsum board.
According to the head of state, meetings were held with the heads of large 20 countries and other countries.
Infrastructure projects are predicted there, such important issues as the Nұr Zhol program and the creation of new jobs are identified.
these funds are aimed at developing road and social infrastructure, increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized businesses, modernizing education and health systems, optimizing the administration of customs and tax systems, and promoting environmental protection. these funds are aimed at the development of road and social infrastructure , improvement of the competitiveness of the smes , modernization of the education and health systems , optimization of the customs and tax administration and reclamation systems environment .
in my opinion, this is the most important question that we will think about. i think it 's the most important thing we need to think about .
we need new people, new ideas and new tools for the development of the country, the implementation of anti-crisis affairs and thoughts, as well as the implementation of the strategy and the new reform of the president.
Also, speaking at the forum, the Chairman of the Majilis called on parliamentarians, politicians and experts to take part in the conference of the President of Kazakhstan "World. XXI century. "
Thus, a plant for the production of high LED products of kazakhstan de li optoelectronics LLP will operate in Turkisib district.
The United States welcomes the efforts of the Republic of Kazakhstan to strengthen nuclear security, as well as to implement the decisions of the Washington, Seoul and Hague summits on nuclear security.
During the visit, the Secretary of State took part in the forum of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Zhambyl region "Big Country - Big Family," dedicated to summing up the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
- President of Factory posh LLP, chairman of the party branch in Zhambyl region
all films will be shown in one of the central Vienna cinemas.
Let the housewarming be positive, "said the Governor of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that for our country, which uses coal in the electric power industry, a very important issue is the purification of harmful substances distributed in the air and the preservation of the environment.
The head of delegations was the President of the Uzbek Republic i.karimov.
Issues of security and development in the areas of the world can be guaranteed by all UN member states, as well as the UN security council.
according to him, legal entities - agricultural producers and peasants, in respect of whom the general taxation regime applies. To offset the increased tax burden, farms (farmers) were given the right to double deduction on the wage fund, reduce the social tax rate to 6.5%, receive a 70% discount on the payment of value added tax and exemption from property tax, transport.
The development model of Kazakhstan is recognized in the post-Soviet space as the most successful method in the region, "he said.
In 2015, their number was 51,370.
our one nation celebrates all the holidays together.
Conducting exercises such as "search" is an important, great event in our military history.
Last year we discussed agriculture, I am ready to support exporting companies and attract new investors to Kazakhstan agribusiness. last year we talked about agriculture , i told that the ebrd was ready to support the private sector companies and to attract new investors in kazakhstan 's agribusiness .
this year, he is the main investment partner before becoming a trading partner. "
Lord Mod is a famous British politician and public figure, over the years he worked in the ministries of the Conservative Party, Foreign Affairs, Trade and Investment, Consumer Protection, and served as Chief Treasurer of the Cabinet of Ministers of Great Britain.
I liked the head of state's idea that we aspire to unity. i liked the idea about the unity of our people , expressed in the article of the president .
Guests of the event - representatives of international organizations, science, culture and recognition of art - enjoyed national dishes, including Kazakh cuisine.
The program of the event includes fairs, folk games, sports competitions, various competitions.
the world has become unstable.
there are many opportunities for the development of international logistics.
The 21st century brought a number of tests to the sphere of economic, environmental, geopolitical, resource, energy. the 21st century brought many challenges of economic , environmental , geopolitical , resource , energy , nature to overcome deep qualitative changes in the development of the world .
This year, more than 10 international military exercises, 15 major meetings and high-level visits were held, following which results were achieved and important conditions were concluded, "said the Tasmagambets imangali.
Accelerate infrastructure projects
housing will be built in all regions of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, issues of participation of these companies in large investment infrastructure projects implemented in East Kazakhstan region were discussed.
the volume of goods transportation by all modes of transport increased by 2.7%, cargo turnover - by 0.1%, passenger turnover - by 9.4%.
During the talks in the Danish Foreign Ministry, specific aspects of bilateral political and trade-economic relations were touched upon, as well as cooperation in the field of alternative energy, research and technological transfers.
this global financial crisis will certainly affect all enterprises.	all this was made possible by the support of the state ,  m. artykbaiuly .
this will allow all state bodies, parliament and the government of Kazakhstan to implement anti-crisis measures without worrying about the elections, "he said.
According to the press service of Kazakhstan Railway, the parties considered the results of the company's work for 2015, work at the beginning of this year and prospects for the development of bklk.
Accession to the WTO provides new opportunities for the entrepreneurial environment, and also requires the improvement of organizations of business structures, requires the development of domestic business, increased support, the development of international cooperation, and the improvement of production cooperation. accession to the wto creats new opportunities for the business environment , but at the same time , requires improvement of the existing mechanism of organization of the business community , support measures , ways of development of the domestic business , international cooperation and industrial cooperation .
your diplomatic, political and economic activities also cover the limits of the region.
in a short time we created a miracle, and this is recognized not only by us, but also by the whole world. for a short time we have created a miracle in the steppe , and this is recognized not only by us , but by the whole world .
Last year, he completed an order for 700 million tenge.
this period was constructive and fateful for independent Kazakhstan.
I propose to create an academy of akhko for the training of high-class specialists, "he said.
Also, all domestic production of cement, bitumen, inert materials and reinforced concrete products will be involved in the implementation of the projects, "he said.
The European Union is an important economic partner of Kazakhstan, "said the chairman of the European Commission.
costume productions, sale of branded products of artisans and peasant farms "made in kzo," stable.
The sides discussed a wide range of issues related to the current state of cooperation and prospects for the future of Kazakhstan in the direction of ecu, exchanged views on topical issues of the regional and international agenda.
According to him, in 2015 agricultural production amounted to 11 billion 797 million tenge, 9.6 thousand tons of meat and 23.7 thousand tons of dairy products were produced.
we must use all opportunities to reach a new level of development, "he said.
this affected the social situation of health workers.
this is an important step towards increasing trade and attracting investments from European countries, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.	kazakhstan has established a constructive dialogue in the cooperation with neighboring countries and other states ,  - n. nazarbayev said .
Of course, this gives stability.
the global crisis has engulfed many countries around the world. the global crisis has affected many countries .
I don't know that very well. i know just a little bit of that .
ecology, society and corporate governance.
tretii.
currently the company produces wheat bakery flour of the trade marks "un tsar" and "tumar."
the total cost is 692.2 million tenge.
the planned state and it consists of three components: open government, open data, electronic services, which we must develop further.
this will lead to the development and formation of a political system. "
To effectively develop the road map, we reaffirm our intention to create a joint working group on the Nұrly zhol program and the Silk Road Economic Belt initiative.
Akhmetzhan Yessimov also presented the leaders of the Astana pro team with an expo 2017 certificate.
entrepreneurs who have applied carry out their activities in the field of pharmaceuticals, recreation, education, trade, livestock, poultry, transport and logistics.
Andrei Kashechkin has been implementing this project for several years.
It is worth noting that school-gymnasium No. 75 was opened on September 1, 2014 with the participation of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As of June 1, 8 thousand civil servants were trained, "the minister said.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the Olympic champions at the extraordinary XVII Congress of the Nur Otan party.
The program of industrial and innovative development is based on the creation of enterprises for the production of high-tech, high-quality products. the program of industrial and innovative development encourages us to create such enterprises , which would produce high-tech , high-quality products .
In all kindergartens and schools of the capital, festive evenings were held on various topics dedicated to the New Year.
The head of state examined the hall of arts and culture, the library and the memorial office.
During the meeting, bakytzhan sagintayev noted that Kazakhstan recognizes the acute threats to international security and the leading role of the UN, its field missions, funds and programs in solving development issues.
all this is a symbol of success, "said a Jewish expert.
Under the new public service model, a new probationary system for first-time civil servants has been established. a new state service model includes a new system of probation for officers adopted in the state service for the first time .
According to K. Aktaeva, it was at this time, that is, on the threshold of independence, that the priorities of multi-vector foreign policy with Kazakhstan were determined and published.
gin increased 20 times and amounted to 13 thousand dollars per capita. the gdp was increased twenty-fold , per capita income is 13 thousand dollars .
"Peace. XXI century. "
The activity of teachers and specialists working in the field of education is important for the country, "said A. Rusin.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the further development of housing construction.
In 2011-2012, the first review of Kazakhstan's investment policy (first review) was conducted by experts of the investment committee on eidu.
agricultural production is the largest and traditional industry of the national economy of Kazakhstan.
it is necessary to work independently, "said N.Aeribetov.
Thus, within the framework of the Silk Road cooperation program, large projects are being implemented with Chinese partners.
2 specialized schools are located in Karaganda and South Kazakhstan regions, 1 children's and youth school is located in Pavlodar region, an ice rink "in Kyzylorda, 5 thousand people are engaged in facilities."
the cruise and repair unions support this decision, as the unification of enterprises will allow you to get an additional amount of work and strengthen the company's position in the market, "he said.
According to A. Peruashev.
it's unfair, "he said.
you have become a model of unity, creation and stability in our society, "the head of state said.
This year we plan to implement a large project that will attract 100 women to the small family business. we are planning to implement a big project involving 100 women in a small family business , we start growing vegetables in 100 arshaly district .
I think this is one of the most important events in the history of the country. i think it was one of the important events in the history of the country .
The Iranian president stressed the importance of ratifying new documents that open up opportunities for free trade between the two countries, and the formation of priority tariffs between Iran and the Eurasian Economic Union.
we wish you and your animals good health in the new year.
we tend to supply regions where there are fewer extractive areas, "he said.
this decision is appropriate for all parties represented in Parliament. it is noteworthy that this decision was made by all parties , represented in the parliament .
As Mr. Abdykalikova noted, the celebration of the anniversary of independence is based on the following "anchor values": freedom, unity, stability, prosperity.
Of course, this is a decisive step of Kazakhstan towards the formation of a safe world.
today, every Kazakhstan strategy-2030, "modern Kazakhstan has been created.
"the white and Spanish company saes plans to master the joint production of sea mines.
in developed countries there is a decline in development, Kazakhstan showed growth in terms of last year.
Among the supported enterprises are sp service, omarkuls a.k., raimbek, alma green fields LLP, Sunkar LLC, Abdi Ibrahim Global Farm LLC.
I think that the new composition of parliament should have all the information about the economy, industry, "he said.
I am sure that in the near future this infrastructure will be launched, "said Governor of the region Danial Akhmetov.
what is the role of the President of Kazakhstan?
in his opinion, the process of contact between the new economic policy of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "nұrly zhol" and the "one belt, one way" initiative put forward by the President of China Xi Jinping is modern.
Kazgerkus exports to the markets of Central Asia and the Middle East, "said S. Kulagin.
we directly cover the fields of science and agriculture. "
any election is an important political process.
I want to say in this article what affected me. i 'd like to tell about my impression concerning this article .
You must continue this work.
Roman Rayleans - Financial Specialist (Romania)
In addition, this year entrepreneurs will be awarded a special "business" prize of the NPP.
Opening the round table, Advisor-Commissioner of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia Viktor Temirbaev called this article of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development," as well as the "road map" for the modernization of the country and five institutional reforms for further development.
our first reform is aimed at improving the efficiency of the state apparatus on the basis of the new law "On Public Service."
Following the results of the forum, it will be announced about the creation of a national brand, which will be called the country of the great steppe. " Altaev.
joint statement by the leaders of Kazakhstan, Canada, China, Hungary, Hungary, Norway, South Korea, Great Britain, the Philippines, Finland, France, the Czech Republic and Sweden regarding a bank of low enriched uranium in Kazakhstan (magate)
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the result of the country's independence, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
we visited southern Kazakhstan, eastern Kazakhstan, and I want to note that kha representatives provide great support, "he said.
at a meeting with the head of the organizing committee, we expressed confidence that this project will be successful and will remain a reliable partner in organizing this major project in the history of Kazakhstan, the international federation, "said Oleg Matytsin.
that would not affect multilateral economic cooperation.
you know, we signed a free trade agreement.
we can develop our relations in different directions. we have an opportunity to develop relations in all directions .
most of our observers will arrive on March 18 and 19. most of our observers arrives on march 18-19 .
I am sure that thanks to joint efforts, the exhibition will be held with honor, "said the CEO of samsung electronics central eurasia yun chol wung.
diplomacia siglo XXI ".
It is scheduled for April 27th.
There were not so many refugees and Kelixeks who have been migrating since the Second World War, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev at the meeting.
in addition, he noted that young people actively voted.
During the meeting S. Abdykarimov briefly spoke about the dynamic development of bilateral political, economic and humanitarian relations between Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic, and also spoke about the long-term strategic modernization of Kazakhstan on the basis of the Nұr zhol plan and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps in the implementation of 5 institutional reforms," preparations for the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital.
our specialists are actively working in 6 cities, including the capital.
The parties also discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in the development of transport infrastructure, including the transfer of advanced Japanese experience to Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan should experience some difficulties, first of all, new entrepreneurship, new ideas and so on, in order to move at the optimal speed in the future. in order to advance the positive rate in the future , kazakhstan needs to overcome some difficulties , the country needs to open new areas such as new business , new ideas , and so on .
this will allow to load the existing capacities in the Republic of Kazakhstan, to get additional income, "he explained.
At the same time, all city services should work in an enhanced mode, "said the mayor of the capital.
This is a beautiful day of spring, "he said.
today the committee has railway, sea, port administrations, logistics companies of such states as Kazakhstan, China, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey, Ukraine and Romania, "said A. Mamin.
This year we have embarked on five institutional reforms.
according to the minister, these funds will support the main priorities of the country's socio-economic development and implement the government's strategic measures to stimulate the economy and engage in economic growth.
The Hague Conference will be attended by 79 states and EU, as well as more than 30 developed countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the minister said.
The 15th international organization has become a reference fund for international development.
Only during the meeting with the Ambassador of the Republic, Kopoku Alobo Abdykalikova noted interest in strengthening cooperation only with Kazakhstan and other African countries.
we know that there are two groups of satellites in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, as the head of state said, it is necessary to carry out social transformation processes in the country. "
Recall that the construction of the loan was started in November 2013 on the basis of Asia Auto JSC.
17.8 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for the construction of this engineering infrastructure.
our enterprises will go to Iran, China, Russia and far abroad, "the report said.
Serbia's participation in EXPO 2017 has also been confirmed.
For this purpose, first of all, it is necessary to hold early elections, "he said.
We plan to offer new types of combat modules, "said Deputy General Director of Kazakhstan Light Engineering LLP.
scientists, experts, technologists, engineers, designers, sculptors and artists took part in this work, "said Vladimir Prusakov.
I urge to take part in the second wave of privatization, "said N. Nazarbayev.
from Kazakhstan in Astana and Kyzylorda, East Kazakhstan and Akmola regions.
According to the political scientist, other people are needed for legislative work.
on the one hand, if we fulfill the agreement, then, on the other hand, we will bring it into line with peace treaties, "the minister said.
Recall that from March 1 to March 8 in the city of Dejon, the international scientific competition "Young Scientist" was held, in which the delegation of the Zhambyl region took part.
thanks to the support of the state, I am engaged in my favorite business, "said the pensioner.
I think this is a very promising project.
Since the beginning of this year, a new law on public procurement has been adopted and entered into force in Kazakhstan.
Last year we got a big harvest. we are ready for sowing campaign .
the transformation program is at full capacity. the program of transformation is being conducted .
photo file.liga.net
I found my personal path in military service, "he said.
Within the framework of the visit to Armenia, members of the military committee met with the Chairman of the Collective Security Council, President of the Republic of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan, Chairman of the Council of Defense Ministers, Minister of Defense of the Republic of Armenia Seiran Oganyan.
According to the Chamber, issues of bilateral cooperation were also discussed during the meeting.
The event was attended by members of the coordinating council, representatives of central state bodies, deputy akims of the regions, heads of departments for the coordination of employment and social programs, representatives of non-governmental organizations.
It should be noted that the conference is attended by the heads of the presidential administration, the prime minister, the house of parliament, representatives of state bodies, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, etc.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev called energy, mining, tourism, agriculture, infrastructure and industry promising sectors of the economy.
In the first five-year plan, a lot of work has been done to develop transport construction.
the award ceremony was attended by members of the Finnish government, the friendship group with the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the business community, cultural and scientific figures, foreign diplomatic missions, representatives of the media, the Kazakh diaspora.
The European Union has become a partner of Kazakhstan from all regions.
spring astana economic school is aimed at research activities by increasing the level of knowledge of Kazakh students, promoting their professional development, revealing scientific potential, mixing with the best world practices in the field of economics, finance, business.
we thank the representatives of the supervisory board. we thank the members of the supervisory board for work done .
- they eat everything: porridge, fruits and vegetables.
in this regard, exchanged views on health, medicine, demographics, social aspects.
I hope that this government order will be formed within a year.
First of all, it is planned to change the main format of the program.
today unity "and was not registered, as they passed on their list late.
this is a risky model in the securities market. this is a risky model of securities market .
The Eurasian Economic Union, the great silk road, as well as the combination of Kazakhstan's infrastructure program "nұrly Zhol" open up new opportunities, "N.Nazarbayev said.
to a meeting with the Secretary of State, Chairman of the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy under President Abdikalikova, member of the Senate of the B.Atim Parliament. managing director of Astana Expo-2017, m.egimbayev, head of the peasant farm as Ushmanova, director of the scientific center of pediatrics and pediatric surgery. director of Kazakhskiye orly LLP of t. elekbayeva, head of furniture factory E. Levina, the Karaganda region "the director of specialized boarding school "successor" of m Nurmaganbetova, "the Kazakh daughter" the Chairman of public association "to. e., singer, business world Astana" director, editor-in-chief of Sh. Dyzdykova, poetessa dauletbayeva, mnogodetnaya mat i t. d LLP. soloist of the Astana Opera Theater, ballet "Capital" "chief director of the M.abubakhriev Theater, biologist d.kanaev, akim of the rural district P. Oralbaev" "chief conductor of the state academic folklore and ethnographic orchestra, actress d.tylendiev, radio link of the military unit of the rocket artillery ship of the Zh.Bulavraev, mechanical repair shop. Kenesarina, Kostanay region, sarykol district "head of the youth initiative center" e.danilova, honored master of weightlifting of Kazakhstan zhapparkul, actress d.baktybayeva, l.mitrokhin student.
we periodically reform and change laws.
a kindergarten of friendship with 108 places, 70 people attend it.
a member of the Turkish ethnocultural center is in solidarity with this idea, "said A.Piriev.
I was struck by the positive and pragmatic step of Kazakhstan, "he said.
our society is going through a difficult period. our society has entered a very difficult period .
So a new list of long-awaited new candidates appeared.
We are very happy to take part in the Universiade in Alma-Ata. we are very pleased that we will take part in the winter universiade in almaty .
on a systematic basis, all issues of the complex enterprises are resolved.
Rosatom, the president of the international Alexander network, in turn, noted that "the signing of the memorandum is what we began to work with Astana Expo 2017."
for realization of the rights of citizens and legal entities on obtaining information on the corresponding components of the web portal of "the electronic government" the uniform module consisting of three components is created: "open data", "open", "open budget".
we are interested in the development of industry in our region, especially manufacturing. we are interested in the development of industry , especially the manufacturing industry .
we appreciate our integration and intend to continue it. we appreciate our cooperation and we want it to continue .
I congratulate you on this mission.
for example, our Kazakhstan, he was born at the time of the collapse of the Soviet Union, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the demand of domestic livestock for Kazakh reproducers has grown, "he said.
Today we will present a project developed by the foundation of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the St. Isaac's Cathedral State Museum-Monument.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan instructed the government in the second half of 2016 to allocate an additional 240 billion tenge to stimulate economic growth.
cattle by 3.1%, sheep and goats by 3.1%, horses by 6.2%, poultry by 10.7%.
This year we started implementing five institutional reforms initiated by the head of state. this year we have begun to implement five institutional reforms , initiated by the head of state .
I would like to share a number of proposals on the development of international financial centers, in which the checkers bank has actively participated in various countries of the world. i would like to share some advice on the development of international financial centers , in which deutsche bank participated actively in the various countries of the world .
Kazakhstan is an important partner of Poland in Central Asia.
The standards of all crirsco members are developed according to a single model.
Kazkontent has been operating since 2009, includes 8 Internet projects, of which 4 are informational, 4 are targeted.
one of them is kara-chun.
- Thanks for the interview.
G. Golovkin thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his great contribution to the development of boxing and sports in general.
The event is attended by people's representatives, kha members, project participants, representatives of state bodies, national companies, creative and scientific intelligentsia, representatives of nationalities and youth.
these trends will allow our country to attract transit freight along the Eurasian land route, "he added.
During the meeting in Almaty a memorandum was signed between the Governor's Office of Almaty region and JSC "Corporation of Social Entrepreneurship" Zhetysu, "agro-industrial holding" Eco-culture, "partnership" green land alatau. "
In 2017, the construction of a school for 1000 seats in the Triumph microdistrict will be completed.
2 competitions are planned in the country: "master of artillery shooting" and "sniper line."
the company produces gold mining and exploration in Canada, Australia, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Papua New Guinea, Saudi Arabia, Zambia and the Dominican Republic.
their share in the budget increased to 39.4%.
As part of the World Bank project, the mission of our delegation to Singapore is being worked out. "
I agree with the fall in oil prices. i agree that falling oil prices is a wake-up call .
the message paid special attention to the roadmap projects implementing the economic reform of social development, "the Kazakh scientist noted.
the project was an indicator of how to assume responsibility for Kazakhstan.
this is a new phenomenon within the framework of the Plan of the Nation 5 institutional reforms, "he said.
Of course, elections are necessary. of course , the elections are necessary .
The construction of two 60-apartment buildings began in 2014.
every year the president did not ignore the field of education. every year the president pays special attention to education .
I think this visit was fruitful for us.	we have 1600 historical monuments ,  the governor said .
According to him, the project "Territory of Inspiration" will be similar to the land art project "nomads," which includes artists and sculptors of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Slovakia.
there is a certain reserve for the coverage of the state apparatus, but no social tasks are reduced, "the minister said.
The heads of state discussed the state and prospects of bilateral relations, as well as a number of relevant regional and international issues.
the Moldovan side also saw a white "ktzh" - "center of technology in transport."
now we are conducting corruption risks. we are conducting an analysis of corruption risks .
all three enterprises - participants in the programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Industrialization Map of Almaty," "Development - Production," providing state support to business.
Our Kazakhstan is a country of the great steppe, a country of the modernized great steppe. our kazakhstan - uly dala eli - is a country of the transformed great steppe .
Currently, Kazagro holding is actively working on the development of an insurance system in the bank, "N. Malelov noted.
If we talk about the technological trend, then I would call digital technologies. if we talk about the technological trend , i single out the digital technology .
It is necessary that in the updated majilis of the parliament there is a similarity of parties and opinions, "said A. Musabaev.
the meeting was continued by representatives of Italian and Kazakhstani businesses.
you know that our country exports wheat. our country exports wheat .
Our main goal is to preserve and promote cultural heritage, create competitive and popular cultural products, "he said.
in addition, the committee considered a draft law "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the provision of free military-technical assistance."
now we are directing correctly.
We will not allow games with the lives of those who need a socially significant object, that is, medical equipment, "said the head of the region.
its basis is the strategic program "Kazakhstan-2030," as well as a number of state and sectoral programs.
The Foreign Minister drew the attention of the participants of the discussion of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the topic "Peace. 21st century, "as well as initiatives to counter other war, nuclear weapons and terrorism.
Also, in order to de-dollarize the economy, the national bank, together with the government, conducts de-dollarisation of the economy and the development of the corporate securities market and the promotion of exchange trading in equal financial instruments, A set of measures will be adopted to increase the attractiveness of tender instruments, including the establishment and demonstration of prices for goods and services, sold on the territory of the country, and prices for them in advertising only in national currency, "- said E.
for example, next year we should hold several exhibitions of the hermitage in Kazakhstan.
within the framework of public-private partnership, we must implement investment projects for social construction facilities.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan participates in conflict resolution in many countries and contributes to the return to peaceful life.
According to the head of state, we have always suffered from totalitarian transport.
Last year, the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" was published on November 11.
Representatives of akimats of Kyzylorda, Mangistau, Aktobe, South Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions, the leadership of the national chamber of entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan are also expected to participate.
as for other indicators of products - this is transportation, processing. as for other performance indicators - transportation , processing .
all expressed their opinion. everybody expressed views .
we are neighbors by sea, and we have great economic potential.
oil continues to play an important role in the world economy. oil plays an important role in the global economy .
it was attended by the Eurasia Research Center and the Department of Economic Theory and Antimonopoly Regulation.
the political council examined all candidates.
That is, this decision was comprehensively discussed.
The head of state stressed the importance of developing the transport and logistics complex, diversifying the economy, creating new jobs and increasing the total domestic product for the implementation of the transit and export potential of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, a delegation of the National Space Agency visited the objects of space enterprises of Kazakhstan: the Nice Space-Ecology Russian State Pedagogical University, the Astrophysical Observatory of the V.Fesenkov Astrophysical Institute.
Therefore, charitable, fraternal qualities are immortalized, "he said.
The opening ceremony was attended by the President of the Center for International Programs Gani Gyrgymetov, the British Ambassador to the Republic of Kazakhstan, Dr. Carolina Brown, the director of the British Council in Kazakhstan jim butter, employees of the language school, as well as fellows who were awarded a scholarship in 2015.
During the event, forum participants noted: "Thrive, native country!" National relay race.
Then he saw the work of the Aray health complex and visited the Soul agro-industrial complex.
The heads of government considered a number of topical issues of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and its development prospects.
In addition, in order to develop renewable energy sources and a green economy, measures are provided for state support for the construction of small hydroelectric power plants Aksu-power LLP with a design capacity of 3.5 mW/h.
We urge all parties to fulfill the commitments made, "the president said.
today we are a sovereign country.
Recall that on April 5, at the annual session of the pair commission of New Yorkers, President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev said that "peace. XXI century. "
also under consideration by the state expert on the project "Makinsky poultry farm."
During the conversation, the head of state noted the significant role of the region in the industrial development of the country.
I congratulate the people of Kazakhstan on this significant holiday, Independence Day, which laid the foundation for our independence and sovereignty. i congratulate the people of kazakhstan on this important holiday , the independence day , which reveals a deep sense of the sovereignty , our value .
According to international experts, world oil prices in 2017-2018 alone will be at the level of 60-65 dollars per barrel.
we want Almaty to be designated an international hub in central Asia, "he said.
this grant will allow teachers to take foreign internships at leading universities in the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Sweden, Austria, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia.
the updated program does not reduce the autumn, winter and spring holidays of students.
joint statement of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear security
the terms of consideration sometimes go up to 3-4 months. terms of consideration reaches 3-4 months .
In my opinion, the elections were held honestly and openly, "he said.
the Eurasian-Atlantic mega-structure is an organization of security and cooperation in Europe in accordance with the principles of mutual trust.
it will help strengthen inter-parliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the two countries.
The organizational structure is being streamlined. we have learned how the international organizations work .
until the end of July "Kazakhstan engineering" Asset "ak 5," asset "kazatomprom" ak 3, it is planned to hold auctions on 2 assets of "samruk-energo," "- said the managing director for asset optimization - member of the board of" Samruk-kazyna "at a press conference within Astana Economic Forum.
Recall that the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017, which will be held in the capital, is one of the most important projects in Kazakhstan.
During the business forum, the Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan will meet with Minister of Industry, Trade and Mines of Iir Muhammad reza nematzadeh, Iir Minister of Oil Bijan, Minister of Roads and Urban Planning Abbas Akhundi, Iir Minister of Agriculture Mahmoud Khojati, Vice.
familiarized delegates with the equipment "Kazakhstan Engineering."
at the first stage of the agreement, agreements were concluded with the European Union, the Russian Federation, Kazakhs and Japan, after which Armenia, Georgia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Norway, Korea, Tajikistan were annexed.
During consultations with the Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lithuania a. Krivas discussed various aspects of bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian, consular and other spheres.
This year, "aibyn" especially met the participants in the gathering.
The most important thing is the production of domestic products, "said S. Kulagin.
This year it was decided to create the international financial center "Capital."
we have to create a tourist town that we don't get. we should make almaty traveler attraction city .
dorsch gruppe holding is a leading engineering company in Germany.
holding a conference on the site of the Astana Economic Forum has become a good tradition. the conference within the astana economic forum has become a good tradition .
the second tranche - 12.3 billion tenge.
social programs to support small and medium-sized businesses, the development of the region - everything is developing.
The meeting ended with a discussion of topical issues of the development of Kazakh culture and art.
E. Dyrisov paid attention that the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the 70th session of the United Nations General Assembly in September, 2015 made the speech "the World. XXI century. "
for us, the opening of a regional testing center in computer mode is an important stage. the opening of the regional testing in electronic format - is an important step .
The constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the International Financial Center of the Capital" was adopted and entered into force.
According to the expert, a new system of targeted social assistance has been introduced.
The Business Roadmap 2020 program has a special impact in this direction.
this is of great interest for the cooperation of business structures of Kazakhstan and Iran.
The head of state pays great attention to the field of education. the head of state attaches great importance to the education system .
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of current bilateral cooperation, as well as prospects for cooperation in political, economic, social and other areas, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
In 2014-2015, 1 trillion tenge was allocated for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
300 thousand schoolchildren are engaged in them.
On the eve of the 15th anniversary of the organization, a deep exchange of views took place on the development of political, economic and humanitarian directions.
Today, 19 out of 33 projects went to Alkash sales of finished products, a total of 800 million tenge was sold, - said t.balykbaev.
in addition, ready-made products are supposed to enter the markets of Kazakhstan and far abroad (China, baa, Mongolia, Afghanistan, etc.). "
It is worth noting that this is a large-scale organizational work that is carried out by all state bodies and creates new conditions for the functioning of the economy, "he said.
in the capital, Almaty, shymkent, aktobe, kokshetau, kostanai, semey, taraz, karaganda, aktau, taldykorgan and Pavlodar 249 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 4,301 thousand square meters. meters.
according to him, the strategic plan for the development of our country is scientifically sound.
During the meeting, the head of state thanked A. Myrzakhmetova for the work done and introduced the new first deputy chairman of the party m.ku.mukhammed.
at some point, we did it. remember , at what time we did it .
many issues were being addressed slowly.
first of all, we are talking about economic growth.
President Nazarbayev always sees the future. president nazarbayev always looks to the future .
investment funds - 422.1 million tenge.
During the meeting, A. Yessimov reported to the head of state on the preparations for the international exhibition in the capital.
I urge the Slovak side to cooperate in the economic and humanitarian spheres, "the Governor of the region said.
the people must know and respect the person, "he said."
The aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan (Kazkosmos) "National Center for Space Research and Technology," ("Ugzto" ak) and "space-ecology" gzo "rmk signed agreements on the implementation of research work under the republican budget program" Applied scientific research in the field of space activities, transport and communications. "
200 active projects work in 60 sectors of the agro-industrial complex, "said A. Issekeshev.
comprehensive work is being carried out to prevent an increase in prices for socially important goods. much work is being done to prevent unjustified rise in prices for socially important goods .
Debates of political parties participating in the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan are broadcast on the republican television channel Izvestia on March 2016, 16 at 22:30 hours.
In accordance with the order of the head of state, the Ministry is working on a free technical education program. as the head of the state instructed , the department is working on a program of free technical education .
ensuring accessibility of transport and social infrastructure.
According to him, this program can implement projects in various sectors of the economy.
Thus, we fulfilled the order of the head of state to attract domestic entrepreneurs to the construction of expo facilities.
The head of state noted that the programs of industrial-innovative development "Nұrly zhol" and five institutional reforms are being implemented in stages.
in turn, K.Lagard Kazakhstan "created and correctly made a national fund.
the plant provides the needs of the metallurgical, chemical, construction and food industries in the country.
During the meeting, the parliament of the republic announced the political and economic reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan, as well as the ways to implement the Nұrly zhol program and the Plan of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "100 concrete steps to implement 5 institutional reforms."
the new Amkodor 37 and Amkodor 211 are used for snow removal on roads, parks and squares with an area of ​ ​ 2.8 million cubic meters. l.
- agreement between the "ktj express" and "irisl" Iranian shipping company and the "road map":
Thus, work will continue to increase the investment attractiveness of the capital.
According to him, the factor of development of the country's economy not only determines oil prices, therefore, "concrete measures are needed to adjust the budget."
for example, people come at 10 o'clock. for example , a person came at 10am .
I instruct the government to develop clear and understandable bankruptcy procedures for individuals and legal entities.
I can say that the first steps in this direction have already been taken in Kazakhstan, "said Vasadze.
cameco works in 4 areas of business: production and production of uranium, production of uranium conversion products and development of nuclear fuel for candu reactors, investment for electricity production and gold production.
According to him, Kazakhstan will be open to foreigners in holding the exhibition.
Today's conference is attended by international experts, outstanding scientists.
our cooperation is expanding, the interest is very great.
247 people in diacb/ecu, 855 on behalf of the CIS, 49 on behalf of the Shu, 154 at the invitation of the central authorities of foreign countries, 5 on behalf of the councils of Turkic-speaking countries.
A healthy Kazakhstan medical train is one of three medical trains launched jointly with the joint-stock company Railway Hospitals of Disaster Medicine of the Emergency Situations Committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the joint-stock company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy and the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
thirdly, the targeted transfer of the document or the transfer by proxy of the Center of the International Program JSC, "he said.
The program has been developed, approved by our partners in joint implementation, "said the rector.
we have a new area of ​ ​ activity in which you can work together. we have new spheres of activity where we can work together .
"The time has come to tighten our legislation, analyze the programs adopted in this area and make appropriate changes," the President of Kazakhstan said.
Noting that Kazakhstan has performed excellent functions with regard to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and international peace;
Since the beginning of the year, we have considered 940 thousand statements and reports of crimes, including 168 thousand each. A pre-trial investigation was launched, the number of murders decreased by 13.5%, thefts by 13%, robberies by 10%, fraud by 15% and hooliganism by 40%, the minister said.
In 2015, 156 thousand people were employed under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," of which 142.3 thousand people were employed for permanent work.
the new Kazakhstani patriotism is based on the principles of responsibility of the state and citizens. new kazakhstan patriotism is based on the principle of mutual responsibility of the citizen and the state .
the state has become a prestigious, prosperous country.
The First Deputy Prime Minister also got acquainted with the work of the Batumi seaport and the oil terminal owned by Kaztransoil.
One of the most important startups for us is reinvestment. one of the most important priorities for us is reinvestment .
for example, in Shymkent, together with polypharma, a project is being implemented to produce complex drugs according to gmp standards.
in addition, the plant has yoghurt drinks, kefir, sour cream, milk, cheese and cream.
the age allowance increased by 5.7 times: from 1999 tenge in 1,951 to 2015 tenge in 11,110.
the largest metropolis in Almaty, which accounts for 20% of GDP and provides 30% of taxes to the state. almaty , the largest metropolis of the country , forming 20 % of gdp , gives 31 % of tax revenues of the state .
together with our company, the whole of Kazakhstan will be integrated.
wrestling is a historical sport for Kazakhs. for kazakhstan fight is historical sport .
the programme focuses on the nuclear security of our planet.
65 steps envisage Kazakhstan's integration into international transport and communication flows. the 65th step provides the integration of kazakhstan in the international transport and communication flows .
he is a politician seeking to strengthen global security.
our cooperation has great prospects.
projects on the industrialization of the economy are also being implemented.
in the raw materials sector, production and technological partnership, implementation of priority projects included in the quota list, the participation of the German side in the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital was also discussed.
important results have been achieved in the industrial, innovative and infrastructure development of the country.
in order to strengthen Kazakhstan's identity on a civil basis, the eternal country "attaches value to a national idea," a society of universal labor "to the Kazakhstan process of due strength, the development of patriotism, mutual responsibility of the state and society for the fate of the country."
at the same time, the state receives favorable conditions for solving problems of the social sphere, business - entrepreneurial activity and additional opportunities for income generation.
Independent Kazakhstan has always developed, despite foreign economic instability. independent kazakhstan has always developed in spite of external economic elements .
Initially, our task was to involve women in the green economy.
The draft program includes the interconnection of organizational, legislative, technological, research and other complex interactions. the draft program contains a set of interrelated organizational , legal , technological , research and other activities .
at the suggestion of these countries, a kha representative office may be opened in Great Britain, Germany, Spain, Bulgaria.
Dear Kazakhstanis, the 21st century opened humanity to innovations, changes in the world economy, politics, the information social space, the architecture of the world, "the head of state said.
we pay special attention to creating the most convenient conditions for international participants. we pay special attention to the creation of the most comfortable conditions for the international participants .
We take part in all cross-country skiing, snowboarding, slopestyle and alpine skiing.
I am sure that the new enterprise will develop further. i am confident the new company will develop .
According to the Minister, this made it possible to produce products in the amount of 740 billion tenge, create 15,700 jobs and increase budget revenues by 66.8 billion tenge.
special attention is paid to the topic of nuclear safety, on this issue mutual cooperation between the two countries is strengthened.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the contribution of the Russian Orthodox Church to the development of friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Russia.
The main task is to instill moral and spiritual education in the younger generation, "said K. Spanov.
the parties discussed topical issues of bilateral trade and economic relations, including in the financial, transport and transit, oil and gas and energy spheres.
The Astana Economic Forum, which will last two days, is dedicated to the topic "New economic situation: diversification, innovation and knowledge economics."
our regions have a significant potential for cooperation in the field of industrial cooperation and high technology. our regions have considerable potential for cooperation in the field of industrial cooperation , high technology .
we organized online voting on the Internet. we have arranged the online vote for those who participate in these tenders .
The Chairman of the Singapore Parliament was interested in the development of Kazakhstan, the international importance of our country, interethnic and linguistic policy.
The National Museum should have its place internationally. the national museum should take its place in the international cultural space .
The competition was attended by more than 100 athletes from the capital and cities of Almaty, as well as West Kazakhstan, Akmola, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan and Aktobe regions.
the conference will be attended by heads of state forestry bodies of China, Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
International financial institutions are a source of funding for road projects. one of the main sources of funding for road projects is international financial institutions .
we did not allow the termination of income. we increased income and reduced poverty rate .
participation of the Saryarka and Ural missile and artillery ships and winning 2nd place in the Caspian Sea 2015 international biathlon competitions.
The professor also noted that the Eurasian Economic Union is very important for Kazakhstan.
in the context of bilateral relations, issues of visa facilitation between Kazakhstan and Austria and cooperation in the field of air transport were discussed. in the context of bilateral relations also the issues of cooperation in the sphere of air transport and simplification of visa regime between kazakhstan and austria were touched .
Of great interest to the conference participants were the Nұrly Zhol infrastructure development program, the implementation of the Western Europe-Western China road construction project, plans for the development of the Khorgos international border cooperation center, a rehabilitation seaport and trans-Caspian logistics routes.
We must not lose unity in order to achieve further success and success and recognize us as the whole world, "the president said.
we are studying various practices. " cast iron.
According to the expert, we should learn to relax in Kazakhstan.
I think it will be interesting for the president to work with new ideas, new people, "said M. Goldberg.
only after the fall of the wall and the end of the war did the world begin to breathe widely, the world economy began to grow, "the president said.
400 million tenge was attracted for the construction of a secondary school with 300 places in the center of the guard district. 400 million tenge was allocated for the construction of a secondary school in karauylkeldy district .
Aktobe, Mangistau and Almaty regions.
During a meeting with Irish Ambassador e McDade, the Secretary of State noted the dynamic development of bilateral relations.
According to the head of state, the first issue is economic growth.
During the meeting, the head of state also presented V. Matvienko with the Order of Friendship of the II degree for his contribution to strengthening friendship and cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
he is developing a new team and a parliamentary corps.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that our country creates the necessary conditions for the development and realization of youth potential.
According to the company, the production capacity is 120 thousand cars in the order of assembly, welding and painting.
This is the first memorandum with the Governor's Office of West Kazakhstan region. this is the first memorandum signed with the akimat of west kazakhstan region .
Earlier this week, the heads of regions arrived in the capital.
The Mayor of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov, Prime Minister Karim Massim, Chairman of the Senate Kassym-Zhmart Tokayev and others also took part in the vote.
fourthly, we have accumulated the necessary state fund and foreign exchange reserve.
From February 20, election campaigning for political parties will begin, which will end on March 18 at 24.00 o'clock, "said K. Turgankulov.
Visiting meetings of the commission are also scheduled, "said B. Sagintayev.
creating an economy of the future.
We are in the process of approving this project.
there is a complete understanding between our states. there is a complete understanding between our countries .
trade partnership and plans to implement new joint investment projects.
G. Abdykalikova in her welcoming speech noted that this meeting is held after the publication of the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
the exchange rate difference is paid at the expense of the budget and the bank's own funds, the report said.
however, social justice should not be distorted.
an agreement was reached to attract investments from international financial institutions in the amount of 369, 8 million dollars and 150 million euros.
Issues of further strengthening of trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural-humanitarian cooperation were discussed during the meeting.
- Director of Pahar LLP of Pavlodar region Ruslan Aushev;
we are reviving the committee of environmental regulation and control.
The history of Hungary is special. hungary has a special story .
The project to create resort places in Mangistau region provides for the creation and development of various infrastructure and communication facilities. the project to build a resort area in mangistau also involves the construction and development of various infrastructure objects and communications .
state agricultural lands are not related to market turnover, "he said.
The event was organized by the embassies of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan in China and Kazakhstan Temir Zholy.
one of the most important areas in this process is life. in this process , one of the most important sectors is assigned to the mmc .
state symbols of each country.
world metal prices fell by 21.1%, and wheat - by 28.7%.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of the country sent invitations to 18 international organizations, as well as 112 states within the framework of these organizations, "said T. Okhlopkova.
The relevance of the agenda, in the general opinion of the participants, arises from the strategic tasks common to all countries to ensure international and regional security, guarantee human rights, and mobilize efforts to protect the interests of society and the State.
regulation of monopolistic activity, bankruptcy - all these issues are very important. regulation of monopoly activities and bankruptcy are the issues that are very important in this direction .
32.0 thousand tons of powdered stone per year will be processed and 150.0 million tenge will be recovered.
everything is thought out. we have considered everything .
It is also planned that the baktykozha of izmukhambets will speak at the IV international forum "Eurasian Economic Perspective."
We fully supported Washington's initiative to hold a nuclear security summit, which was an important step in the field of international security, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the African Union summit, the head of the Kazakh delegation is the chairman of the commission A. Botswana, Benin, Ghana, Gambia, Guinea, Liberia, Namibia, Niger, Malawi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Comoros, Swaziland, Seychelles, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Equatorial Guin, Ethiopia in and southern Sudan.
Vice President of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Dmitry Kurochkin, member of the board on economics and financial policy  (minister) Timur Suleymenov, the adviser-representative of Embassy of Kazakhstan damask steel imanbayev, National agency on export and investments of "kaznex invest" "the vice-chairman of management Asel Ergaziyeva, the deputy akim of the Southern Kazakhstan area saparbek tuyakbayev" the chairman of the Shymkent board "akk" talgat alpysbayev "Took part in work the chairman of the board" Tobol "ak" Armand Aliyev, the managing director of Eurasian Development Bank Nicko Vardapetyan, representatives of regional Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Russia and the Kazakhstan-Russian entrepreneurs.
The Ambassador introduced the Minister to the concept, goals and objectives of the Government, the processes of accession to it and the agenda of the events planned in the capital.
Issues of support of small and medium-sized businesses in the cities of Aktobe and Khromtau were discussed, and the development of a partnership program for the development of small and medium-sized businesses for 2016-2018 was also considered.
During the summit, the Secretary of State met with the Prime Minister of the Polish Republic.
the head of the CIS observer mission Sergey Lebedev will take part in the press conference. "
for the future of Kazakh sports, the development of the system of a youth sports school, a specialized youth school is very important. development of a network of children 's and youth sports schools , specialized youth schools is important for the future of sport in kazakhstan .
in Karaganda region - 4,428 people, in Pavlodar and East Kazakhstan regions - 3,145 and 2,529 people, respectively.
I invite all participants to take an active part in the work of the commission.
As akim reported, this work in the city has already begun.
in Mangistau region it is planned to create a resort zone "kenderli."
The full and effective implementation of the allocated funds for the implementation of these measures will allow in 2016 to increase economic activity, support employment and contribute to the growth of the economy to 1%, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
all personnel issues have been resolved.
we will always be on the move, "said the head of state.
Within the framework of the event, an exhibition of investment projects "Made in the Karaganda region" will be organized.
the worldview of our time has changed.
Thanks to the policy of the Government of Kazakhstan, special attention is paid to the development of the financial sector. thanks to the policy of the government of kazakhstan more and more attention is paid to the development of the financial branch .
among them are a cook, a baker, an automobile mechanic, a welder, etc.
One of the important accompanying messages of the President of Kazakhstan is the Internet resources of state bodies.
among them are anti-crisis stability, sectoral modernization of the economy, a new standard of quality of life for Kazakhstanis, state constitutional patriotism and regional stability, integration and security.
The headquarters of the JSC is located in the capital.
In all regions of Kazakhstan, work is underway to conclude agreements with large companies with branches, he said.
we are working on the development of our work with such a Kazakhstani partner as kazatomprom, "he said.
there is sk-pharmacy and there is a purchase.
Prime Minister K.Masimov, State Secretary of Abdikalikova, Head of the Presidential Administration n.nigmatulin.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening bilateral relations in the trade, economic, financial, investment, petrochemical and cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed.
I express my gratitude to these countries for their loyalty to the EXPO-2017 project, for the invitation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan and other countries are working to determine the future of the planet.
wealth, happiness and life begin with the homeland.
The Chairman of the Majilis noted that Kazakhstan is chairing this year, and suggested that the President of Kazakhstan declare 2016 "the year of deepening economic relations with third countries and important integration associations."
this project provided permanent employment for 250 villagers, the average monthly salary of which is 87 thousand tenge.
Kazakhstan supports equal access of all interested states to civilian nuclear technologies, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
According to him, stable business is possible only in a stable society, and a stable society will be at the level of economic and social development of women.
the parties discussed issues of strengthening cooperation on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural and humanitarian issues.
we are creating a special platform for analyzing issues of trade and economic cooperation. we are establishing a special platform to discuss a wide range of trade and economic cooperation .
this is a vivid expression of the heat image of the country forward.
according to the minister, the museum should become a center of interaction and cooperation between research institutes, universities, archives, libraries.
Specialists from the capital and Karaganda themselves go to the countryside, "he said.
During the conversation, the parties discussed topical issues of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, prospects for the implementation of joint projects in the transport and transit sphere, construction, agriculture.
heidelbergcement installed a modern turning and milling plant in a new training and production workshop as part of the implementation of the pilot project "dual training system in Kazakhstan."
The goal of EXPO-2017 is the energy of the future. the theme of expo 2017 - is the energy of the future .
this is the largest organization in central Asia that is of interest to Switzerland, "he said.
we intend to work in close partnership with the Government of Kazakhstan, and now we will determine the priority areas of our work.
including the European program of scientific development "Horizon-2020," an international project to create an international virtual observatory with the participation of people, Canada, Great Britain, Italy, Armenia, etc., projects on the holding of international astronomical schools for young scientists in different states.
the social significance of the investment project was also noted.
we plan to produce emulsion bitumen. we plan to start production of the bitumen emulsion .
the starting price of the asset is 162.9 million tenge.
As of December 3 of this year, pensions and benefits were assigned to 2330 applicants.
we are interested in developing cooperation in this area.
we believe that the elections will be held calmly and evenly.
Over the year, the city budget grew 14 times and amounted to 315 billion tenge.
It is planned that you will have 3 months, "he said.
During this military event, the head of the defense department checked the level of combat readiness and ability of military units 03811 (kulan village), 91678 (Bauyrzhan momyshuly village), 85395 (Taraz city) and the Negro-ashybulak training ground.
the construction of the glass plant is carried out in accordance with the plan. the construction of the plant is going according to plan .
a competition was announced for transport infrastructure projects, it is planned to announce a competition in health care in April this year, "he said.
The meeting discussed and adopted the work plan of the public council this year.
Let the sky be open, our time will be calm, "he said.
The sides expressed satisfaction with the current pace of development of bilateral trade and economic cooperation.
the current world is moving to product labelling. the whole world is going to ensure that the products are labeled .
a lot of work has been done to strengthen statehood and modern market conditions, "the head of state said.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the deputies represent the leading political force in parliament - the Nur Otan party.
If last year was marked by such significant events as the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Constitution, the 70th anniversary of Victory, then 2016 is the 25th anniversary of our independence.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the presidential administration, the government, the apparatus of the Senate of Parliament, the leadership of authorized state bodies.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has been a supporter of the policy of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against the use of nuclear weapons.
in addition, R. Azevedo expressed interest in participating in the work of the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
some state-owned companies will be brought to the ahko exchange, and we are interested in supporting this privatization, "he said.
In a month, I held almost all meetings with the leaders of leading countries. i 've met with leaders of almost all countries in just one month .
such an infrastructure program unites the internal regions of the country.
among them are delegates elected at conferences in all regions of the republic, heads of state administration bodies, national holdings, figures of education, science, culture and sports, representatives of the diplomatic corps, non-governmental and youth organizations, and primary party organizations.
the former world is based on the dominant role of one or two powers and is changing. the former world based on the dominant role of one or two superpowers is changing .
Since January of this year, on the basis of Nazarbayev University, applications have been received from 58 Almaty participants in the project "Ownership of top management."
this is a successful initiative of Kazakhstan as a full member of the WTO, "the head of state said.
The head of state noted that in the current economic situation it is necessary first of all to improve methods and expand "economic diplomacy."
Kazakhstan has nominated a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
an era of renewal is coming for all of us, and we must always be ready for it. the era of great changes comes , and more than ever it is important to be prepared for it .
He noted that this initiative received the support of all political parties in the country.
As of April 4, 2016, 385 objects were actually put up for auction, of which 250 objects were sold, 17 for republican property, 120 for communal property, 63 for JSC, and 50 for holdings.
Attracting investment to the region remains a priority and primary objective for local authorities.
At the XXIV session of the CHA, the tasks of independence, consent and the nation of a united future will be set. preservation of independence , harmony and unified nation tasks will be put at the xxiv apk session .
participants of the meeting shared views on a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, especially in the field of combating organized transnational crime and expanding the legal framework.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is implementing a new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
the volume of foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan with typhoid countries in 2015 amounted to $5 317.37 million.
this is a timely, correct decision. this decision is a wise and timely , which corresponds to the current challenges .
the decisive international stage will be held from July 30 to August 13 at the Alabino training ground of the Russian Federation.
I wish a speedy recovery to the victims, and to the families and friends of the victims a speedy recovery, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is a clear implementation of the strategy of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan outlined by the head of state.
Our portal www.enbek.kz includes all vacancies in the country, today there are 17,200 open vacancies, "he said.
these figures fully correspond to the potential of economic cooperation between Iran and our region, b.saparbayev believes.
even advanced economies now face difficulties in solving a number of economic and social problems.
West Kazakhstan region borders on five federal facilities of Russia - Astrakhan, Volgograd, Saratov, Samara and Orenburg regions.
As the head of state noted, holding the Universiade will bring for Kazakhstan an image project and great environmental and social efficiency. as the president noted , the universiade is an important image project for kazakhstan , designed to bring great economic and social benefits .
transtelecom is one of the largest dog and communications operators in the country.
this is very important for the state, because the research carried out has proved that people who speak the language influence the development of the economy. for the state , it is important because studies have shown that people speaking several languages , contribute to the economy , " - she explained .
Recall that in accordance with the order of the Head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan needs to make changes to the industrial and innovative program.
this is the active work of all state bodies, and there are already concrete results, "the head of state said.
he noted that "the world. XXI century. "
Last year, the Netherlands officially confirmed its participation in Expo 2017.
Recall that today in the capital, on the initiative of the Kghzi, an international conference "New Global Situation: Tests, Regional Stability" was held.
In addition, in accordance with article 46 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the central election commission approved a model certificate for a deputy of the maslikhat of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has recently shown political mobility and proved its readiness for any situation.
The parties discussed in detail issues of ensuring full and equal access to the participation and powers of women in the civil, political, economic, social and cultural spheres.
The length of the highway is half the center-south corridor.
the first is through local executive bodies.
Atameken represents the interests of entrepreneurs.
In his opinion, corruption is a problem that undermines the confidence of citizens in the legal system and reduces the economic and investment attractiveness of the country.
for example, last year 4 new productions were launched in mechanical engineering, chemistry and petrochemistry with the participation of "anchor investors."
According to memoranda on mutual cooperation with whites "bayterek ubx," "kazagro" ubx, "" xg almex, "1.2 billion tenge will be additionally attracted to Aktobe region.
Within the framework of this event, a regular meeting of the coordinating committee for the development of the Trans-Caspian international transport corridor (thkd) was held under the chairmanship of the President of Kazakhstan.
our goal is to establish close interaction with the Hermitage.
our president always says that you need to move to energy-saving technologies and instill in the traditions of the economy. our president has often said that it is necessary to move to the energy-saving technology , people must be taught savings culture .
these buildings are made great.
this will help increase the volume of mutual trade between the two countries.
in this regard, this problem will be solved, "he said.
this foreign delegation includes experts from the Ministry of Transport and Trade, the Association of Communications and Maritime, International Carriers, the Union of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Turkish Exchanges.
the second.
In accordance with the current situation in the global economy, I believe that the government's decision to hold early elections is quite expedient, "he said.
Of course, it is beneficial for us that the cosmodrome is located in Kazakhstan.
and, probably, this is not the limit either.
Every year domestic legislation is being improved. we improve the legal framework from year to year .
the growth area of ​ ​ the ippaea-innovative idea.
Kazakh side was represented by Minister of Economic Integration Zhanar Aitzhanova, Vice Minister of Agriculture Yermek Kusherbayev, representatives of the Ministry of National Economy, Development Bank of Kazakhstan and the domestic business structure.
A working group of Kazakh, Chinese and Romanian specialists carried out a great preparatory work.
the role of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan is based on unity. assembly of people of kazakhstan 's role is to bring together .
now long-term observers work not only in the capital, but also in the regions. "
The message of the head of state was welcomed by inspiration in all regions of Kazakhstan. in all regions of kazakhstan people acclaim very well the address of our president .
The Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan is creating all conditions for the development of a modern inclusive economy.
Metropolitan Alexander thanked the head of state for celebrating this holiday.
we will work further.
According to him, to date, 150 projects have been implemented in Kazakhstan with the participation of more than 140 investors in the amount of $6 billion.
Thus, the implementation of the memorandum amounted to 96.1%.
Since last year, the capital has become one of four donors to the republican budget.
Nazarbayev paid special attention to state programs of industrialization and "nұrly zhol," agro-industrial complexes, support of small and medium-sized businesses, employment and business activity in economic diversification.
Nұr Otan should have his own think tank, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Over the past 6 years, 2 thousand domestic enterprises have received state support. over the past 6 years , the state tools have been used by more than 2 million industrial enterprises , about 500 thousand jobs were created .
the meeting was about the 24th session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, held in April.
We expect it to be launched in October. we expect kashagan to be launched in october .
The head of state awarded 39 scientists with the Al-Farabi State Prize.
As reported, commemorative silver coins "alka" from a series of coins "field treasury" with a face value of 500 tenge, from silver of quality "proof" with a face value of 500 tenge and from a mixture of neisilber with a face value of 50 tenge from a series of coins "tales of the people of Kazakhstan" (leather), commemorative coins "venera- 10" from a series of "space" coins with a face value of 50 tenge.
517 specialized, 536 rural schools).
therefore, you don't need to worry about it, "he said."
we have a room, a person, technology, communications.
Vladislav Kosarev fulfilled the historical mission of the Majilis of parliament, said about the need to move to a new stage. "
The meeting adopted amendments to the bill on the ratification of the Protocol on Amendments to Intergovernmental Agreements on the Procedure for Payment of Freight Traffic on the Railway Sections of Two States Located in Russia and Kazakhstan of August 15, 2006.
When I do not grow up, I am actively involved in the implementation of our project, "said Nicolas More.
The total volume of construction works at the end of 2015 amounted to 2 trillion 900 billion tenge, which is 7% higher than in 20104. the total volume of construction works amounted to 2 trillion 900 billion tenge at the end of 2015 , " tukiyev said .
According to T. Sarkisyan, the Eurasian Economic Union is a regional economic organization that is not political.
The plant, built to support the government program for energy saving and compliance with technical regulations, uses safe building materials, processing glass, equipped with modern automated installations of manufacturers of world production (Austria), biesses.p.a (Italy), bistronic (Germany), glaston (Finland).
it was not easy to achieve this, especially in a crisis, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
"To appoint Askar Isabekovich Myrzakhmetov as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
That is, a large supply of data includes deep expertise, optimization of the process of industrial enrichment, from the field to a smart factory, "said Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev.
Therefore, we increase activity on social networks.
At this stage, the main construction work has been completed, only finishing work remains to be done.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the implementation of infrastructure projects and the development of export-oriented high-tech industries are a priority of the country's economic policy.
all the achievements of independent Kazakhstan - peace, harmony and stability - will remain and will continue, despite the global financial crisis and geopolitical instability, "the senator said.
this holiday is for each of us.
Within the industrialization map 800 projects worth 120 billion tenge were implemented, 10 thousand permanent workplaces were created. Within the industrialization map 120 projects worth 800 billion tenge were implemented, 10,000 permanent workplaces were created.
The opening of the direct investment fund will give impetus to bilateral trade, economic and investment cooperation.
According to him, the Astana economic forum will contribute to strengthening multilateral and multi-level partnership between various countries.
By the decree of the head of state, Bishimbayev Kuandyk Valikhanovich was appointed Minister of National Economy, "Karim Massimov said.
we sent a statement that kazrc will become a full member of crirsco. we have sent a request for accession of the kazrc in the crirsco committee as a full member .
It should be noted that the national holding "Kazagro" plans to direct budgetary credit funds for 60 billion tenge, which in the form of loans are supposed to be divided between subsidiaries of the holding and banks of the second level (edb), to carry out the upcoming sowing campaign and in general during spring field work.
In this regard, the time comes for the transformation of "ktzh" and "ak," said A. Mamin.
this is a requirement that we cannot support Kazakh producers. this is a requirement of the wto , the eaeu , and we can 't continue to support kazakhstan producers .
eternal country. "
of these, 37 residential buildings worth 374.5 million tenge and 354 non-residential facilities worth 5.5 billion tenge.
At the end of the meeting, the Secretary of State wished the director of the State Museum-Monument "St. Isaac's Cathedral." success in strengthening and developing Kazakh-Russian cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
N.Nazarbayev in his article noted that in the modern world all developed countries are a single nation, "countries created within the framework of the historical situation.
Given the situation in the crisis of 2008-2009, we can use it right now, "he said.
we must carry out our work in a calculated form. we must carry out the work transparently , especially as , unfortunately .
During the meeting with representatives of Eidu, tamara duissenova discussed the further implementation of the projects "Policy Review aimed at protecting three groups: youth, older workers and vulnerable segments of the population," "Review of the Eidu health system for Kazakhstan" and "Review of national health accounts for Kazakhstan."
During the meeting, the issues of the upcoming work of the Astana International Financial Center as the leading international center for financial activities in Kazakhstan based on the best world practices were discussed.
in Kazakhstan, on behalf of the president, this program started in 2009.
During the visit to our region, guests will take part in the Ontustik invest-2016 international investment forum in Shymkent, where they will familiarize themselves with other projects.
Recall that the capital is hosting the second international conference "Eurasian transport corridors: new ways of cooperation," organized by the Kazakhstan Institute for Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan.
The head of state stressed that despite the negative events in foreign markets, Kazakhstan managed to maintain economic and social stability.
Along with the popularity of the exhibition, the effectiveness of Tadeh-2016 for the development of the country's military-industrial complex and the supply of the army should be noted.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of specific instructions.
we attach great importance to the deepening and systematic expansion of partnerships with the Penza region, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
Note that the XIII Eurasian Media Forum officially opened in the capital.
This year the work will be completed, "the Governor of the region said.
Recall that the XIII Eurasian Media Forum is held in the capital.
As a result of the implementation of the unified program 2020 WHSD for the 1st quarter of this year, participants paid taxes in the amount of 37 billion tenge, expenses on gross products amounted to 370 billion tenge, 8 thousand jobs were created.
Volume growth is observed in all regions of the country, "said B. Sagintayev.
the apartments are spacious, warm, clean and everything necessary for living in them, families, children, "the new settlers say.
"- said Askar Yeleshov, head of the production section of Kaspiytaszhol LLP.
He noted that within two days industrial, agricultural and social facilities of shuaa chan were considered.
Therefore, the manifesto of the Kazakh leader is a great contribution to the preservation of global security, the strengthening of peace, on which international economic cooperation is based, "he said.
In addition, military personnel of different countries discussed issues of joint communication systems, a plan of interaction of troops (forces) of the combined control system and assessment of the radiation, chemical and biological situation, the regulation on the committee of chiefs of staff of the Commonwealth of Independent States, as well as joint events of the Security Council of the CIS member states in 2017.
In addition, the updated deputy corps will give a new impetus to the legislative work of Kazakhstan, "said M. Ashimbayev.
the history of Central Asia and Kazakhstan is being studied in our universities, "the scientist said.
In particular, kazatomprom will be given access to new markets through additional integrated offerings.
It should be noted that more than 300 people from countries of far and near abroad take part in the forum: Kazakhstan, Great Britain, Israel, China, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan and Russia.
Together with Kazakhstan, the observers to the ILC include Great Britain, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands Kingdom, Canada, South Korea, Russia, Belarus and other states.
The volume of oil refining in 2015 amounted to 16 million 295 tons. the volume of oil refining amounted to 16 million 295 thousand tons .
the whole world is watching us. it is so important that the whole world is watching us .
to appoint beketayev marat bakytzhanovich as deputy head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
As representatives of Kazagro noted at the meeting, the state shows the greatest interest in the development of agricultural cooperation.
On behalf of the head of state, measures were taken for 2016.
Among the members of the board are such reputable heads of financial institutions as the president of the ekdb s.chakrabarti, the chairman of the board of directors jp morgan chase international d.frenkel, the chairman and one of the founders of the blackstone group s.schwartzman, the president and chairman of the board of Sberbank of Russia gref.
This year, the first city cars will run on this bridge, "said D. Tsursky.
we implement joint projects in transport, energy and other areas.
legislation provides for the introduction of new incentives for investors, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan registered 107 deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the sixth convocation in accordance with articles 12, 45, 46, 97-1 and 98 of the constitutional law "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
At the end of 2014, this figure reached $13,000 and increased 20 times.
The high-level discussion session was attended by the Chairman of the Mogens lucketoft Steam Commission, the First Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations Jan Eliasson, the former President of Indonesia sussed the Bambang Yudoyono, a prominent public figure in Liberia and the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize laureate Leime Gbovi, the Secretary General of the Arab League emir of the Musand the Foreign Ministers of 25 member States.
private enterprises are competitive, they do not need help from the state, "he said.
The event was attended by Polish parliamentarians, representatives of state bodies, business structures, public organizations, and the academic environment.
we must thank each other for resolutely forming ourselves as a people, "he said.
Kazakhstan should become a leading country in the region with strong institutions, a qualified, effective and predictable government.
video received on the TV channel "24.kz"
As of June 1, 2016, 1353 projects worth 260 billion tenge were financed to allocate these measures, "said K. Ishimbayev.
Last year, the head of state presented an important strategic document - the National Plan, which implements 5 institutional reforms, 100 concrete steps. "
In addition, K.Lagarde noted that the IMF supports Kazakhstan's reforms on the country's economic, industrial and infrastructure development.
these are the state participants of the CIS, as well as Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, India, Korea, Malaysia and Mongolia.
construction works are carried out by Aray-Stroy-market LLP.
Measures to implement the cultural and educational project "Generation +" for 2015-2016 were approved by Order of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 11, 2015 No. 135-r, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan reported.
secret signs "(; b. kairbekov) documentaries.
82.7 billion tenge was restored.
This project is included in the industrial map as part of the program "forced industrial and innovative development."
As part of the legalization of property, 179 applications worth 3 billion 497 million tenge were received in al-Farabi district for 2014-2016, of which 107 applications (cost - 1 billion 250 million tenge) were legalized by the commission's decision.
According to the Governor, projects worth 7.5 billion tenge have been implemented, 7 thousand 550 people have been employed.
The President of the Kazakhstan Railway said that in 2015 the Borzhakty-Ersay railway line was put into operation, the "dry port" of the Khorgos-East Gate special economic zone was launched, new facilities, the largest transport and logistics center in central Asia, began to function in the whitewash port.
the meeting discussed the participation of international organizations in the exhibition, holding conferences and seminars, thematic content of pavilions and other issues.
We also provide an opportunity to increase the activity of citizens of Kazakhstan and all institutions of civil society, "the expert said.
Within the framework of this program, the construction of a plant for the production of 15.0 thousand tons of sodium cyanide per year was implemented with an internal reserve that ensures the economic growth of the region, i.e. the anchor investment project of talas investment company LLP.
The aluminium profiles production plant "aluminium of Kazakhstan" was launched as part of the industrial innovative development program.
we took them into account, and they will be strictly observed, "he said.
At the XVII Congress of the Nұr Otan Party, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of the elections.
their portfolio is very expensive, rare books, "the minister said.
the session is also divided into several interesting topics: "new approaches for the population in the current economic reality"; new geological capabilities and license prospects ";" defining the development of the tkm scenario within the framework of the new global reality. "
Also, in order to radically reform the tax system, the Ministry of National Economy in August 2016 will submit to parliament a draft integrated tax and customs code, which provides for the introduction of a sales tax instead of VAT, the optimization of tax regimes to three levels, the abolition of inefficient tax benefits, as well as increasing the transparency of the tax sphere and the effectiveness of tax administration, "the minister said.
It is necessary to create thousands of jobs and double labor productivity, "said the head of state.
The launch of the resource-3p spacecraft No. 3 is planned from the launch complex at site No. 31 of the Baikonur cosmodrome on March 13, 2016 at 00.56 Astana time.
As the political scientist noted, the national company "Astana Expo-2017" as the first of the public councils showed an excellent example.
Therefore, we must fight to eliminate such prerequisites, "he said.
this is due to the stabilization of the financial market, the development of economic competition of business, the optimization of budget policy.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a large institution of the people, unites all the peoples of the republic. the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan - a great institution , which brings together all the peoples of our country , all society created unite .
these contracts for the supply of military equipment, the construction of roads and acts proposed after the completion of the entire project, the minister said.
our task is to convey to the population all proposals and opinions.
The program will include projects of the bank, chemical production, mechanical engineering.
taking into account this dynamics, the forecast for 2016-2018, "said the head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning of Almaty.
As you know, by the decision of the Head of State, the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan assigned measures within the framework of EXPO-2017. the protocol signed by the head of state , the ministry of culture and sports of the republic of kazakhstan was entrusted to hold all cultural events in the framework of expo-2017 .
creative society, the creation of new dog personnel, the creation of additional dog personnel, the creation of skills and competencies of the new digital economy, "he said.
44 of them are ecu/diakb observers, 111 CIS mission observers, 3 observers from the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, 17 observers from eight foreign states.
We hope that this visit will fall into the sphere of the international expo, "the minister said.
The head of the metropolis visited the "international Almaty airport" and the railway station "Almaty-1," located in the Turksian region of the city.
Recall, on March 2, a conference was held in the capital on the topic: "New global reality: problems, risks of regional stability."
According to the results of the events, furnace No. 1 was launched on September 29, 2014, and after 1 year, on September 10, 2015, furnace No. 2 was launched.
secondly, if you look economically, then we are now holding meetings and elections to maslikhats of all levels, then we are saving the republican budget, "said Z.sayapov.
According to its results, this measure should maintain the competitiveness of prices for furniture manufactured in eurozone countries, "said the Minister of Trade Veronika Nikishina.
"Peace. XXI century "- the president has identified five specific areas.
The Kazakh delegation was headed by the Chairman of the Board of National Managing Holding Baiterek JSC, the German delegation was headed by the Executive Director of deutsche bank Peter Tils.
new generations have to live, study and work in the digital world, so we need to continue to inform schools. the new generation will live , learn and work in the digital world , so it is necessary to continue the computerization .
new residential buildings were built in the Shugyla microdistrict with white funding by the National Managing Holding Baiterek.
Recall that the CIS unites Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine.
privatization is one of the directions on this issue, but it is mandatory to create a free market for new ideas, "the expert said.
at a meeting with the leaders of the group linde group and knorrbremseag discussed the possibility of increasing cooperation in the process of industrialization in Kazakhstan.
of these buildings, 85 residential buildings will be built and commissioned at the expense of the state budget, 35 - "kick" and "ubh" baiterek "white, 5 -" samruk kazyna. "
The press conference will be attended by the President of the Union of Farmers of Kazakhstan auzhan Darinov and the head of Agro Es JSC Sergey Gubin.
It should be noted that today the XIII Eurasian Media Forum is taking place in the capital.
In this regard, the first steps were taken, and now "nұr Otan" must implement specific tasks, "he said.
At the same time, in his speech, the foreign expert noted that Kazakhstan is open for business and is one of the best countries doing business in the countries of Central Asia.
The event will be attended by the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation, Culture, Ancient Monuments, Tourism, League of Arab States, Al-Azhar Islamic Center, UNESCO, Islamic Organization for Education, Science and Culture (isesko), representatives of embassies of the CIS countries and Turkey, major universities, public organizations, business and academia, local and regional main parks, as well as Kazakh students studying at Egyptian universities.
Under the 2016 interest rate subsidy mechanism - 1.7 projects for a total amount of loans of 26 billion tenge under the instrument "Guarantee on bank loans," 1958.6 projects for a total amount of guarantees of 149 million tenge are implemented.
it should be updated sleeping, "said the veteran.
dear friends, the future of Kazakhstan depends on the generation of youth. dear friends , the future of the republic of kazakhstan depends on you - the young generation .
The increase in volumes was due to investments in the construction of the Kazakhstan-China gas pipeline LLP Asian Gas Pipeline.
We also provide an opportunity to increase the activity of citizens of Kazakhstan and all institutions of civil society, "the expert said.
development of cooperation in the field of export of Kazakh products to the Iranian market (metal products, building materials, gentlemen, grain, etc.).
sleep here late, the air is clean, beautiful. we go to bed late , there is a fresh air , beautiful .
This year, for the first time, non-state enterprises took part in the republican exhibition "Best Goods of Kazakhstan" and the prize of the President of Kazakhstan "Golden Quality."
According to the director of the Kazakhstan company "total impex" dauren turapbekov, this pilot project will allow to attract new investments in the country's economy in the future.
The 43 of the object and securities in the amount of 1,147,5 million tenge has been legalized.
The list of the village party consists of public figures, representatives of products, the business sector, the executive branch (akim of the village, districts), "said the secretary of the" aul. "
Ukrainian delegation consists of 70-80 athletes. the ukrainian delegation will be composed of about 70-80 athletes .
During the discussion during the meeting of ministers, the head of the analysis and policy department of the Directorate of Employment, Labor and Social Relations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Mark Kizeidu, noted that he had begun to implement two large-scale projects on employment analysis.
we have achieved this despite being a multinational and a multinational country.
During the meeting, the leaders of the two countries discussed the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, scientific, technical, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
It is very important that ahko can become a platform for national privatization.
the authors of the new textbook are scientists, methodologists, theoretical and school teachers.
Kazakhstan has become a symbol of peace, unity, stability and prosperity. kazakhstan is recognized by the world community , it became a symbol of peace , unity , stability and prosperity .
As of the first quarter of this year, 1217.0 million tenge of investments were attracted to the city of Arys.
Over the five months of this year, the number of traffic violations in the country decreased by 3.3%, dead - by 6.9%, injured - by 3.5%, he said.
we are close states that work in the same economic union.
This is at a high level, "he said.
Within the framework of the visit to St. Petersburg, Kazakh senators took part in the IV international forum "Eurasian Economic Perspective," and also took part in CIS events: on culture, information, tourism and sports; to study the experience of state construction and local self-government; political affairs and international cooperation; on agrarian policy, natural resources and ecology; Meetings of the Standing Legal Commissions.
due to the lack of logistics costs, our products are many times cheaper and better, "S. edilbayeva noted.
we know our advantages and disadvantages, we have studied world trends, all risks are weighted, "said Issekeshev.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies of Kazakhstan, a delegation of the European Union, heads and representatives of the European Union representative office in the Republic of Kazakhstan, diplomatic missions of several European countries.
these proposals are now being considered, "he said.
trade turnover between Kazakhstan and India is quite high, more than a billion dollars. the trade turnover between kazakhstan and india is quite high , more than a billion dollars , it 's several times more than in all the central asian republics .
all infrastructure issues have been resolved on the construction site.
Within the framework of improving Kazakhstan's position in the doing business rating, three sets of amendments to the legislation have been adopted aimed at reducing the number of procedures, deadlines and financial costs in business.
According to him, in order to implement priority investment projects, Kazagro provides for the provision of state guarantees for the production and processing, primarily for the production of meat and milk in 2016-2018 for 300.7 billion tenge.
As noted by S.Shauenova, the production company "Peak utaria Ltd" since 2011 is a member of the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
The relevant institutions of China have already begun this work, "said van I.
at the meeting a. Yessimov reported to the head of state on preparations for the international exhibition "Expo-2017," as well as on its informative equipment.
we must all count on the national currency - tenge.
The World Cup will be held May 19-27 in the Barys Arena Palace.
we must develop a new life strategy. we must develop a new strategy of life , which will build on the possibilities of our country .
It should be noted that in connection with the outstanding participation of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in the IV summit on nuclear security, held in Washington from March 2016 to April 1, 31, the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the UN called the UN leadership and the diplomatic community of New York as a whole the authorship of the President of Kazakhstan "peace. XXI century. "
this year, Kazbat company will also go to the UK for joint training as part of the steppe eagle competition.
Doctor of Economics.
In asserting its independence, Kazakhstan had strengthened new economic security and had a positive impact on the social situation.
The President recalled that the theme of expo-2017 is called the "power of the future."
Defines the critical short- and medium-term challenges facing the economy of the country. Sarkisian.
In 2016, the current subject of small and medium-sized businesses increased by 1.3% (from 1,285,287 to 1,302,56). the number of active small and medium business increased by 1.3 % in 2016 ( from 1,285,287 to 1,302,562 ) .
Issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation, prospects of Kazakhstan's election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 and Lithuania's participation in the international exhibition expo-2017, which will be held in the capital.
Last year, the Governor's Office of the capital developed a plan of measures to provide medical services to guests and participants of expo-2017 together with the "National Company" Astana "expo-2017."
142 projects with an investment volume of 145 billion tenge were approved in these regions, of which 50 were fully implemented.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee according to estimates in March 2016 amounted to 133,922 tenge, the report said.
reduction of import dependence, budget replenishment and creation of new jobs.
"We are ready to work with Kazakhstan in many areas," the Belarusian president said.
this is one of the basic values ​ ​ of the country's development. there is a great national project within step 86 - " big country - big family . "
Kazakhstan is currently carrying out significant reforms to improve the public sector, strengthen the principles of meritocracy in the economy, "he said.
Representatives of official, economic, business and expert circles of this region of Germany took part in the event dedicated to the program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan.
in his congratulation, the head of state noted that last year Kazakhstan confidently moved on the path of progressive development.
The main goal of the meeting is the introduction of the first international standards, "said A. Adyrbaeva.
During the event, information materials were presented on the topic of EXPO-2017 - "energy of the future."
further, the government must create conditions for free and healthy competition.
therefore, 6 macroregions - southern, northern, central-eastern, western, Almaty and for the capital - should create their own programs.
In turn, S. Karchevsky thanked the head of state for his contribution to the development of bilateral cooperation, noting that the Polish leadership is awaiting the visit of the Kazakh president to Warsaw.
Also, the lighthouse coat is recognized as "the best product in Kazakhstan."
During the meeting, the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party spoke in the main areas of the message. Myrzakhmetov, Minister of Health and Social Development of Tuissenova, Minister of Finance b.sultanov.
Today Kazakhstan is a stable state, because it deepens its history. today , kazakhstan is a successful , established state , because there are deep roots .
I will give him the title of "people's hero," the head of state said.
they know the technology and experience that exists in developed foreign countries, "the minister added.
in the early years, Kazakhstan did not stand on its feet with ease.
including in industry - 1,528, wholesale and retail trade, motor and motorcycle - 4,305, transport and warehousing - 1,158, education and health - 3,157, construction - 2,678 and other economic activities - 5,563.
Kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of mass sports and sports of the highest achievements. kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of mass sport and elite sport .
We are confident that our athletes will show good results in hockey (men's and women's), curling (men's and women's), skiing, cross-country skiing, snowboarding, freestyle and figure skating.
construction will be carried out in two directions.
The head of state expressed confidence that mutually beneficial cooperation based on friendship between Kazakhstan and Austria will develop for the benefit of the peoples of the two countries.
when I nominate my candidacy, I first want to pay attention to the development of sports, issues of promoting housing issues. i will be nominated a candidate to the majilis and , first of all , i would like to focus on sport , to develop it and solve some issues .
The congress participants adopted the election program "village" khdpp "return of traditions to the village."
to appoint a sagadiyev erlan kenzhegalievich as Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
In this regard, international transit amounted to 75.023 billion cubic meters, domestic - 14,957 million cubic meters and transportation for export - 12,770 cubic meters, "he said.
in general, social and economic inequalities are implicated in the post-industrial era of the digital divide. by and large , in the post-industrial era the digital divide implies the social and economic inequality .
To date, the selection stage among the pilots of the air force of Kazakhstan is held at the Kyzylagash and Kazakhstan aviation training grounds.
Today, SMEs produced products worth 256.5 billion tenge, and the budget received 222.3 billion tenge.
According to the general director of the network Daniyar Alshanbayev, the project worth 640 million tenge will produce 10,800 tons of products per year.
20.7 thousand tons of powdered stone per year will be processed in the amount of 103.6 million tenge.
we do not know what the coming years will be.
Thus, from June 10 to 20 there will be a 50 percent discount.
along with other laws, these laws created a fundamentally new legal environment for the development of the state, economy and society.
we are now introducing a national qualification system, "said Duissenova.
the share of arrivals from the CIS countries and departures to the same countries was 75.2% and 87.7%, respectively.
members of the republican association "noble child" also thanked the head of state for transferring personal belongings to "mercy actions."
Nursultan Nazarbayev urged all Kazakhstanis, all social strata of society to support the decision that caused the demand of time.
First of all, it is necessary to expand the basis of budget revenues, "the head of state said.
According to its results, last year two regional programs were launched in the capital - astana-casstart and a regional financing program.
national operator of the Earth remote sensing space system, national operator of the high-precision satellite orientation system, "national operator of the space communication system."
rabbits are very sensitive, clean and cowardly animals.
the rural party proposed to implement the state program "rural infrastructure."
partners agreed to develop the marketing infrastructure of goods in the markets of Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the hostel has created all the conditions for everyday life and leisure.
The President of Kazakhstan met with employees of enterprises, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses.
According to N. Shkeev, the new model of the fund's activity consists of three areas: commercial services (managing the portfolio of existing assets and the development of new companies, industry), corporate services (finance, human resources management, operational support) and monitoring activities (including new complex services).
On this issue there is legislative support in European countries, Asian countries, "he said.
The main topic of discussion is the annex to the Address of the President of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan on the new global situation: growth, reforms, development" and the direction of Kazakh-Polish economic cooperation.
In a word, Kazakhstan has a new stage of democaralization.
This year it is planned to create a center of technological competencies in the mining and metallurgical industry together with American companies mckinsey and google.
they create new decent conditions for the development of the country, economic growth and improvement of the life of all Kazakhstanis, consistent with the standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, uniting the most developed states of the planet.
recently I visited the pyramid "and the office of the fisu in the athletic town.
This center will be launched in May this year.
we want us to follow the right path and always save our direction together, "said the President of Uzbekistan.
Lawyers of our country are actively starting this work, "said D. Kurmanova.
today, all countries of the world suffer from the impact of the economic situation. today , all countries in the world are involved in the globalization process .
we can unite and do it easily, "said B. Saparbayev.
these methods ensure transparency of the department to society, "the minister said.
initiated by Kazakhstan, which receives wide international support. "
40-50% of the world has modern ships equipped with anti-ship missiles produced by this company.
we also call on all public associations and non-governmental organizations of the country, all citizens to support our initiative. we also appeal to all public associations and non-governmental organizations in the country , to all citizens to support our initiative .
now we are producing case furniture. now we produce high qualified cabinet furniture .
His speech noted that the similarity or proximity of the positions of the two countries on the main international and regional issues creates a real basis for large-scale cooperation in the international arena.
samat Islamovich Ordabayev was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Ukraine.
As you know, one of the most problematic issues in the energy sector was the issue of kaztransgaz-Tbilisi. "
Last year, the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" was published on November 11.
Within the framework of the Paris agreement, I propose to develop a road map for the development of the "green economy" and the effective use of natural resources, "the head of state said.
From January 1, 2017, the dominant of the registers of natural monopolies will be received, "the minister said.
in the introductory speech, Abdikalikova noted that the head of state clearly identified the vector of development of Kazakhstan as a democratic, secular and economically developed state.
we pay great attention to working with transnational companies. we are focusing on the work with multinational companies .
Recall that the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment will be held in Astana in June this year.
the Minister of Industry, Mining and Trade Muhammad cut nematzademen and the Minister of Oil Bijan mothballed cooperation in mining and trade, prospects for the development of railway infrastructure, freight and grain terminals between Iran and Kazakhstan, establishment of cooperation in the field of agriculture, subsoil use and geology, bank, expansion of direct flights, including between the regions of the two countries, possibility of updating swap operations of oil raw materials and expanding cooperation in oil and gas, petrochemical spheres.
both areas are favorable for growing potatoes, vegetables, fruits, oilseeds and cereals, "said Saparbayev Berdybek.
these are the works of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in Chinese, Arabic, English, German, French, Spanish, Mongolian, as well as in the languages ​ ​ of the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
in order to solve the problem of inadequate taxation of agricultural land in a special tax regime, a 70% benefit was excluded from the land tax, according to which the rate was increased by 5 times, the rate on a single land tax was increased by 1.5 times, the regions were given the right to increase it to 10 times for unused lands. in order to solve the problem of imperfection of taxation of agricultural land in the special tax regime the land tax was derived from the application of 70 % of the benefits and the rate on it was increased by 5 times , and the rate of the single land tax was increased by 1.5 times , with the provision of the rights of the regions to increase its unused land for up to 10 times .
The heads of state discussed topical issues and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the new conditions of using alternative trade routes.
The event is attended by specialists of analytical organizations of Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Iran, Mongolia, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan.
we see that entrepreneurs have a demand for new equipment, and we want to give them what we want. we see that the entrepreneurs and the population needs new tools , and we want to give something that is really needed and expected .
However, the expo-2017 exhibition remains unprecedented in this regard.
These initiatives of the deputies were well received by society and specific events were announced, "he said.
Government creates conditions for free and open competition. the government will create conditions for free and fair competition .
this year Kazakhstan marks the 80th anniversary of the deportation of Poles.
It is worth noting that today 69 countries and 13 international organizations have officially confirmed their participation in the EXPO.
The location of the general secretariat in the capital testifies to the great confidence in Kazakhstan, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the breadth of the flag is the darchanism of our country, the height is an increased status.
all measures will be related to export and productivity criteria.
in particular, a memorandum of cooperation between Kazakhtelecom and china telecom global limited; " memorandum of understanding between Kazakh "uk" ak and sinopec corporation; " между kazakhstan petrochemical industries, inc "и china national chemical engineering co. ltd signed an ers-agreement on the project for the construction of an integrated gas-chemical complex in the Atyrau region; The memorandum of understanding on the project of the industrial park of non-ferrous metallurgy (copper mining) was signed by the heads of central asia gold corporation LLP and shenyang lianli copper companies, as well as others.
first, work, hard work, creativity, science and education.
For the first time, the professional performance of judges is assessed depending on one year of service in the judiciary. the assessment of the professional activity of the judges is based on the results of one year of work as a judge for the first time .
C. The guest informed about the activities of Parliament within the framework of the reckless Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," as well as the progress in the implementation of reforms of the judicial system aimed at ensuring the rule of law.
International Air Transport Association (iata) - airline association.
the draft budget is based on Almaty development parameters and indicators of the city development program for 2016-2020. the draft budget was formed in accordance with forecast parameters of almaty development and the development programme for 2016-2020 years .
According to this document, the meeting decides to hold the judge accountable, "he said.
military personnel of the airmobile troops were the first, "eastern" - the second, "southern" - the third, "western" - the fourth.
Eurobank Association's priority has always been to support initiatives to improve the investment climate in Kazakhstan. the priority of eurobak association is supporting initiatives to improve the investment climate in kazakhstan .
This is due to the procedure of the customs union and international agreement, "he said.
our consumers are large dog companies operating in the market. our customers are large companies operating in the it market , office equipment .
Kazagro worth 15.4 billion tenge - 3.5 billion tenge.
At the same time, copper reserves are estimated at 100 million tons, and zinc and lead reserves at 150 million tons and 50 million tons.
people should study, participate in all programs, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the golden ball project is aimed at attracting to sports.
maintaining social stability was an important issue.
Following the conference, a memorandum on cooperation in the field of tourism was signed between Astana Expo 2017 and the leading tourist agency of the Australian swagmantour.
today there are no political, economic issues between us.
I'm glad to be here. i am very happy to be here , i think kazakhstan is my second homeland .
Kazakh and Russian are part of our lives.
supporting and supporting women, mainly women's entrepreneurship, is one of the priority areas of the country's development, that is, it is important for our country, for the coca-cola component, "he said.
I think that our cooperation will be fruitful and we will produce joint products. i think that our cooperation will be fruitful , and we will launch joint production .
On February 12, 360 candidates were nominated for the regional maslikhat, of which 10 passed. as of february 12 , 36 candidates were nominated in the regional maslikhat , 10 people were registered .
With regard to the political movement of women, there has been an increase in representative authorities every year. talking about the political advancement of women , every year there is an increase in the representative bodies .
this is every fourth loan of second-level banks through the Development Fund.
235 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the economy of the region and 2,000 new jobs were created.
this is only part of the work received by our talented artists. it is only one part of the work created by our talented artists .
support from the state and the Baiterek holding, along with the import substitution of these products, will contribute to its export to Lithuania, Russia and Central Asian countries: Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, "said Ruslan Evloev, Deputy General Director of Kazazot LLP.
The meeting was attended by the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the head of the presidential administration n.nigmatulin and the deputy head of the presidential administration B. mailybaev.
Chairman of the sprint development agency (Singapore) phillip yeo and First Deputy Prime Minister outlined possible areas of cooperation between the Singapore Development Institute and Kazakhstan.
Finnish companies are ready to share their technologies, "the Finnish ambassador to Kazakhstan said.
over the past 5 months, 659 cases were received for conciliation, last year - 288 cases, "the judge said.
The project of updating and reforming the public service of the Government of Kazakhstan is the introduction of European experience in the field of public administration of Kazakhstan.
According to him, 2015 projects worth 5 billion tenge were launched in 443.2, 1992 jobs were created.
today in the subgroup we discussed cooperation with the People's Republic of China, India, Israel, Egypt, Iran, Cambodia and other countries.
currently, the world has one of the most pressing topics in the development of science and new technologies. the development of science and new technologies is one of the topical issues in the modern world .
this is a high-quality education, highly valued work, food, improving legislation and safety, "said B. Sultanov.
let all countries know that this is good, "said Z. Nurlanov.
armored wheel vehicle leopard 6x6 - products developed by the domestic plant of Kazakhstan Paramount Engineering LLP.
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation in the political, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as international and regional issues of mutual interest.
According to him, last year the volume of gross regional product in the region amounted to 224 billion 646 million tenge.
In February 2015, the working group held 34 meetings and considered more than 200 problematic business issues. in february 2015 , 34 meetings of the working group were held , more than 200 problematic business issues were reviewed , " - he said .
golden Altai is a project of wealth for the development of the region.
Every product in Kazakhstan should be high-quality, convenient, beautiful and cheap.
The National Center for Space Research and Technology showed two white research institutes.
Head of the Office of the President of Kazakhstan M. Kasymbekov, Director of the Museum of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting.
roadmaps on the president's institutional reforms have been prepared.
During the talks, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan addressed the Minister with a speech by the President of Kazakhstan "Peace. 21st century. "
More than 9 million voters will vote for the choice of the country's legislative power, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
An important issue of the congress was the report of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev. the main issue of the congress has become the speech of president nursultan nazarbayev .
I think that Kazakhstan can serve as an example for the whole of central Asia.
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the Belarusian side and personally. Lukashenko for his many years as chairman of the EEO.
we plan to develop a joint plan for the promotion of our brands - the brand of the international exhibition "expo-2017" primarily through the network of foreign representative offices of the state corporation and the brand of Rosatom in the preparation and conduct of the exhibition. "
altynsarin, Auliekol, Karabalyk, Zhikarin, Karasu, Kostanay, Martym, Mendykarin, Sarykul, Uzunkol Fedorovsky districts and the city of Kostanay.
has many years of experience in the field of creation, development and management and has international experience in more than 250 projects in 75 countries.
This was reported by the press service of JSC "State Corporation" Government for Citizens. "
Deputy Chairman of the Majilis noted that the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development of road transport infrastructure, logistics and air transport, adopted on October 27, 2015, will help to implement the following areas: creation of unified operators for the provision and development of road transport infrastructure - 58 steps, in the international transport and communication flows of Kazakhstan integration - 65 steps, the creation of an international air hub - 66 steps, The development of air transport "air astana" and "Kazakhstan Railway" national company as a large international company - this is the task of 67 steps.
the Kazakh leader has repeatedly warned about this, "said Julia Yakusheva.
a week ago, the first stage of the railway tunnel of the Angren-Papal highway in Uzbekistan was completed. "
today we have significantly optimized budget expenditures. nowadays we have significantly optimized the expenditure part of the budget .
this shows a 2.5-fold increase. this is a growth by more than 2.5 times .
the clergy is important, it stimulates our society, stimulates the human spirit and teaches each other to be forgiven. religion is important , it motivates our society , religion touches the human spirit and teaches us to love and forgive each other .
The President also recalled that this year has been declared the year of deepening economic relations of the eurozone with key third countries and integration associations.
in the industry structure, the largest nominal salary in professional, scientific and technical activities is 298.0 thousand tenge (2.2 times the average republican level), in financial and insurance activities - 249.6 thousand tenge (more than 1.9 times), in the field of information and communications - 183.8 thousand tenge (more than 1.4 times), in industry - 181.9 thousand tenge (more than 1.4 times).
Thus, with the support of the Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, work is underway to develop interregional cooperation.
If earlier we worked with public organizations, medical organizations, now we will go to addresses, that is, at the regional, district and rural levels. before that we have worked with ngos , associations , health organizations , and now we will work at the regional level , districts , villages .
Recall that products under the brand name "rola" will be sold in South Kazakhstan, Almaty, North Kazakhstan regions and the city of Astana.
The technation program has been launched, in which grants are allocated to startups.
The agreement was signed in the capital on July 2, 2012 as part of the state visit of the President of Macedonia to Kazakhstan. the agreement was signed in astana on july 2 , 2012 within the state visit of the president of macedonia to kazakhstan .
The republican action initiated on February 15 will be held for 9 days and will end on March 18, 2016 in Almaty.
How do you assess the economic aspect of the President's message to the people of Kazakhstan?
As F. Mogeri noted, Kazakhstan is the first country in Central Asia to sign a second-generation agreement with the EU.
our state, under the leadership of Head of State Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, has won a number of victories. our country has achieved all these unprecedented heights under the leadership of president nursultan nazarbayev .
in the new economy, the space industry is one of the main areas. space industry in new economy is one of the important directions .
industrial-innovative and infrastructure development. there have been significant results in the industrial and innovation , infrastructure development of the state .
As part of the implementation of the agreement on the creation of the EAEU, last year our governments adopted the main directions of industrial cooperation (nynb). last year , our governments adopted basic directions of industrial cooperation .
a meeting of the President of Kazakhstan A.D. within the framework of Nazarbayev's visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran.
the capital attaches great importance to expanding and deepening cooperation with canberra.
now this has already been done, "said the entrepreneur.
at this facility there is land from the left bank of the capital. this facility has been provided with a plot of land on the left bank of astana .
The event was organized by a famous writer, political and public figure, head of the Culture Foundation.
This project will be a solid basis for providing personnel at small and medium-sized businesses, in developing companies, "he said.
The total volume of payments in 2016 amounted to 209 billion tenge.
this is very important in global change.
last year investments in fixed assets amounted to 82 billion tenge or 84.4% by 2014. investments in fixed assets amounted to 82 billion tenge .
Taking into account the best world experience, K. Bishimbayev also reported on the interim results of the program "Competition Leaders - National Champions," developed following the example of such programs in Germany, Singapore, Kazakhstan, Malaysia and other countries.
On December 9, 2015, the Unexo headquarters in Paris will host the 2015 international forum "Energy of the Future," dedicated to the theme "Combating Climate Change and Energy of the Future," organized by Nazarbayev University and the national company Astana Expo-2017.
congratulations to all on this holiday. i heartily congratulate you on this wonderful , bright holiday - christmas .
Following the election results, the country will be stable and increase its national wealth, "he said.
Last year, the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" was published on November 11.
Last year, the message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" was published on November 11.
If the price of one square meter fixed through local executive bodies - 140,000 tenge in the regions, then in the capital and Almaty - 180,000 tenge.
The meeting summed up the operational results of the work for 2015 and the first quarter of this year, the press service of Ktzh reports.
in addition, young people will be assisted to participate in the Employment 2020 program.
seventh, the economic behavior of Kazakhstanis is changing.
Managing Director of Kaznikhinvest JSC Yerlan Muratov presented the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan.
2 of them from the CIS mission; 4 observers - from the ecu/diak mission, 2 - from the Republic of Armenia, 2 - from the Azerbaijani republic, 2 - from Georgia; 2- Republic of Latvia; 2 - Malaysia; 2 from the Russian Federation and 2 from the Republic of Estonia, "said CEC member T. Ohlopkova.
these are 4 packages of legislative amendments aimed at improving Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating.
all these measures give the state and society additional stability to our economy.
this tense situation also affects central Asia and the Caucasus.
today we have reached a new level in production.
Kazakhstan faces great preparation for fair holding of EXPO-2017. kazakhstan faces a big challenge - preparing for the expo-2017 .
Within the framework of the event, issues of promoting domestic regional trade, improving transit and transport potential, as well as improving the business climate and developing business cooperation in Central Asia were discussed.
participants of the meeting noted the prospects for the development of investment cooperation in the field of transport infrastructure, agriculture, engineering, construction, discussed issues of trade and economic relations between the two countries.
I hope that Rosatom, as well as oil and gas companies, will take part in the exhibition.
We visited 3 polling stations. we have visited three polling stations .
According to the Ministry, Kazakhstan's economy is entering a new reality and a new phase of development.
Each project signed in the memorandum is aimed at improving the social life of residents of the region, "he said.
The budget expenditures on education and science will be increased by 55 billion tenge and funds in the amount of 454 billion tenge will be provided. for education and science the draft revised budget allocates funds in the amount of 454.4 billion tenge with increase by 55.1 billion tenge from the approved plan .
production capacity will be 364 thousand 800 units per year.
Recall that the International Public Fund "Katev" was developed to coordinate the activities of Turkish educational institutions between Kazakhstan and Turkey.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of integrity for the formation and development of our country.
I sing in Kazakh, Azerbaijani and Russian.
We are working on the implementation of the Plan of the Nation. "
the keys to the new apartments will be received by white depositors of the "Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan."
During the lecture sven sester spoke about the main directions of development of foreign economic relations with Kazakhstan.
Bekmukhambetov will not perform for the first time on the stage of Astana Opera.
Also, early elections will ensure Kazakhstan's membership in the UN Security Council. also , i think that snap elections will contribute to the promotion of kazakhstan 's bid for non-permanent member of the un security council .
a new department was being established for that purpose.
cooperation in various spheres has been developing between our countries for many years. our two countries develop cooperation in different spheres of economy for many years .
Within the framework of this seminar, the organizers will promote the experience of green projects in Kazakhstan, as well as train students in the effective use of green technologies among society, the introduction of green business through practical actions.
During the launch of the project, 1.5 thousand jobs will be created, 50-65 million tons of ore per year will be produced.
the main component of the product is flour. the main component of the product - flour .
From June 21 to 30 there will be a 30 percent discount, from July 1 to 10 - a 20 percent discount.
a joint project of the Kazakh national oil and gas operator kmg uk and cefc will be developed on the basis of a group of kmgi, which was called the "silk way."
Today, corporate social responsibility of business plays an important role in supporting society in the social, economic and environmental spheres.
In order to develop the draft Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan on taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget and customs regulation (tax and customs code), a working group was established in the Ministry of National Economy, which included representatives of State bodies, the Atameken NPP, NGOs and business organizations.
The forum will bring together representatives of business, government, national companies, potential investors.
During the meeting, issues of bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres were considered.
national holdings received 138 billion tenge by transferring 43 objects to the competitive environment, national companies made a profit of 3 billion tenge. sultans.
foreign researchers are interested in the island, genre world, as well as the project of acclimatization of Turan tigers in Kazakhstan.
this project is the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the result of the agreement reached by Nazarbayev with the leadership of the PRC.
this year their number was about 46 thousand people.
At the end of the meeting, the ministers expressed confidence that the new international document would mark the beginning of long-term cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Senegalese Republic for the benefit of the peoples of the contracting parties.
this visit is related to the Astana Economic Forum.
Kazakhstan can play an important role in coordinating relations between Ankara and Moscow. kazakhstan can play a very important role in the resolution of the conflict between ankara and moscow .
Nobel Prize laureates, to. pissarides and e. Prescott, president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of page of a chakrabarta, economist, former adviser to the president of river of river and prime minister of Great Britain m of Thatcher and. laffer, director of land institute of Columbia University of saxophone, professor of economy of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology of to an azhemogl, president of the Cambridge university Chairman of the board of directors of "boston consulting group" x. - burkner, chairman of the board of directors of jp morgan chase international of Frenkel.
we fully support this direction. we fully support this initiative .
During the meeting, the heads of delegations of Central Asia and Japan discussed issues of strengthening multilateral cooperation in the field of transport and logistics, trade and investment, security, the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation, as well as the further development of cooperation, the report said.
During the business visit, domestic enterprises held talks with the business community of the Omsk region, the ministries of agriculture, food, economy, construction, as well as the development and investment agency.
The Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Ukraine organized the event together with the Ukrainian company "monacoukrainegroup."
We urge all citizens to support the proposal for early holding of parliamentary elections and elections to maslikhats of all levels for our common interests and common goal, for the prosperity of our common homeland - the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the appeal says.
image of a star, shanyrak, nest, winged rose in legends, as well as the inscription "Kazakhstan" - golden.
we will continue to cooperate with each other. we plan to develop our cooperation in the future , " - said mr. abdallah .
Now we will watch the release of pavers, "said Dmitry Anatolyevich.
The President of Kazakhstan made a historic decision to renounce nuclear weapons. your president of kazakhstan adopted a historically important decision - to refuse the nuclear weapons .
here we urge users of the social network to comply with the law of our country on elections. "
I believe that this is an excellent initiative. to my mind , this is a good idea .
At the beginning of the speech, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev introduced new members of the Council of Foreign Investors - Vice Chairman of Marubeni Corporation Michihiko and Manager of Knauf Nicholas Wilhelm Knauf.
we can accelerate reforms in public and economic life.
The activity of the hub is considered as a reflection of the policy of the President of Kazakhstan towards strengthening regional and interregional cooperation for sustainable development.
over the past six years, $20 billion has been raised in the country's manufacturing industry. over the past 6 years , the manufacturing industry of the country raised by more than $ 20 billion .
"on amendments to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of legal acts";
we will develop work on the reception of a foreign patient. we will intensify our work on the reception of foreign patients .
If the head of state supports this initiative, new instructions will be given at the meeting, "he said.
Timeliness and accuracy of current year budget implementation. timeliness and accuracy - these are ways for implementation of the budget this year .
they have shown interest in multidimensional cooperation with our country. it reaffirmed the mutual interest in strengthening multifaceted cooperation with our country .
This is a great contribution to the development of the country, because throughout this period, young people ceased to receive education, "said H. Karzai.
The head of state instructed to make the most of the products of domestic manufacturers. the head of state instructed to work with local producers as much as possible .
According to the chairman, the conference is of global importance, voiced by the head of state. XXI century. "
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the state pays great attention to issues of social support of the population of the region.
- Head of the central apparatus of the party "aul" Rustemjolaman;
we are trying to hold open and democratic elections in accordance with international principles. we try to hold open and democratic elections , corresponding to accepted international principles .
The target transfer from the National Fund to continue financing road infrastructure projects will be increased by 240 billion tenge and determined in the amount of 807.5 billion tenge.
our main goal is to implement the policy of the head of state. our main task - to carry out the policy of the head of state .
According to him, one of the areas of cooperation is the introduction of a budget-oriented result.
The event was attended by Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development Svetlana Zhakupova, representatives of the Steam Development Program in Kazakhstan, interested state bodies, international organizations and NGOs.
2.9 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of the industrial zone.
Therefore, Independence Day is a great holiday for all Kazakhstanis, "said the leader of the nation.
And now there is only one law that is clear and covers all issues of cooperation, "he said.
this is the largest national exit poll in Kazakhstan.
R. Vasilenko noted the importance of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Lithuania in strengthening the regional aspect of cooperation between the European Union and Central Asia.
dreaming of sovereignty, we have gone through a happy period. dreaming about the sovereignty , we have reached a happy moment .
the anniversary family competition is held in 3 stages: the first stage - district (city); the second stage - regional; the third stage is republican.
dear ladies! dear ladies !
Since 2010, three advisory and diagnostic trains "health," "assistance" and "healthy Kazakhstan" have passed 1,292 km in 137,482,5 days, residents of 916 stations of the regions of the republic have been examined.
According to the Vice Minister, another important innovation introduced into the legislation is the extension of the time of social payments when dismissed under the new labor code, a reduction in the number of employees or staff, a massive reduction in workers, that is, in the event of a termination of an enterprise or bankruptcy, a loss of work from 4 to 6 months.
Most importantly, I wish prosperity to our country.
Kazakhstan considers a specific ideology in its development path. kazakhstan lays a serious ideology under its development .
He also assured Nursultan Nazarbayev that the German federal government will continue close cooperation with the government of our country, in the future will support the representatives of the German diaspora in Kazakhstan, who make their significant contribution to the political, social and economic development of the republic for the benefit of the country.
in the field of refining oil products (gasoline, diesel fuel, fuel oil, liquefied gas) produced products worth 1.6 billion tenge and amounted to 116.5%.
we are ready to offer new city buses, new communal vehicles, a wide range of fire products. we are ready to offer new buses , new utility vehicles , a wide range of fire products .
winners are determined in the nominations "individual skill" and "team championship."
- Traditionally, Kazakhstan monitors the mission of the Office for Security and Cooperation in Europe on democratic institutions and human rights (since January 10, 1999 - presidential elections), the commonwealth of independent states (since September 2004 19 - parliamentary elections), the Shanghai cooperation organization (since August 2077 18).
In December 2015, a meat processing plant worth 1.9 billion tenge was commissioned with a capacity of 7,200 tons per year.
Members of the Austrian delegation got acquainted with the white enterprises "tullar-talgo," "locomotive building plant," white "electric locomotive building plant."
In general, the Almaty budget retained its social orientation.
These and other issues were discussed at the meeting of acting chairman of the committee with representatives of the branch of the International Air Transport Association in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the airline "airastana."
"Kazakhstan's accession to the agreement will give impetus to the development of close partnership relations with the countries of the shoulder, intensify cooperation with Islamic financial and economic institutions, and promote investment in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
basically, France, Canada, Britain, the USA and others - they are all participants in the hub and share their experience, "he said.
musical-composer shamshik of Kaldayaks, in the word-umeken of the Najimedens and Nursultan Nazarbayev.
from the republican budget.
the investor was in the special economic zone "morport rehabilitation" and was satisfied with preferences.
The head of state pays special attention to attracting investment and improving the investment climate of the country.
Among the enterprises that signed the document: JSC "Kazakhstan Electrolysis Plant" Aksu Ferroalloy Plant "Kazkhrom," "Pavlodar Petrochemical Plant" ak, "kaes No. 1 of the city of ekibastuz" Kaes No. 2 of the city of ekibastuz "" Bogatyr coal "became the largest in the region.
A lot of work has been done in this area.
When Kazakhstan became independent, the borders were determined, the president was elected.
This is as a result of the balanced policy of the head of state, "he said.
The main topic of the negotiations was a number of issues of bilateral cooperation of important projects in the field of sustainable development, mainly on the introduction of the German model of dual vocational education in Kazakhstan. Implementation of the Nazarbayev-Merkel initiative, support for a bilateral economic project within the framework of public-private partnership, Cooperation in the development of alternative energy sources within the framework of Expo 2017, as well as solving social and environmental issues of the EU and the UN.
successful step. "
Spain is one of the main economic partners of Kazakhstan in Europe, and our partnership shows very good development. spain - one of the key economic partners of kazakhstan in europe , and our partnership is developing .
I am sure that the election campaign and elections will help in difficult times to consolidate the nation and bring our Kazakhstan to new frontiers, "the head of state said.
Over the two decades, relations between Kazakhstan and Spain have significantly strengthened, which resulted in the signing of numerous official visits and initiatives in various areas of bilateral cooperation, he said.
Holding joint elections is a budget saving, "he said.
next year it is planned to complete the megaproject "Western Europe - Western China," which will attract additional investments.
As you know, last year the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" was summed up, a program for the development of health care for 2016-2019 was adopted.
The New Year is a special holiday that is looking forward to a particularly younger generation. on the new year 's eve we are always dreaming and waiting for a miracle .
"The twenty-first century: a world without war."
we are ready to carry out this project with honor.
That is, in social policy, the priority of the state is investment in the development of human capital.
At the meeting of the Security Council, the head of state gave a number of instructions in the strategic and systemic plan aimed at ensuring national security. at the security council meeting , the president gave a number of specific instructions of strategic and systematic measures aimed at ensuring national security .
At the same time, representatives of the capital's department of entrepreneurship and industry and JSC "Astana" akk "uk" developed a special program for street shopping facilities.
today we present a magnificent project, part of a large program, a great strategic work to preserve and restore and preserve our cultural monument. today we are presenting a wonderful project and a part of the great program and great strategic work is dedicated to the conservation and restoration , preservation of our cultural monuments .
In her speech, Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC "National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest" Asel Ergazieva told the participants about the main provisions of the new economic policy of the country, opportunities for investment cooperation between the two countries in the EAEU.
As part of the Film Days, a number of films will be shown, including "One-sided Light," "," "," "Doroga domoy," "Gift to Stalin."
That is, I did not notice such operational maintenance operations in other states, "said the Israeli observer.
I draw the attention of all states to cooperation at the global level, cooperation in the regional bilateral, interregional, global, economic, trade and investment spheres, "the head of state said.
The leaders of the two countries also discussed issues of strengthening cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, agricultural, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
this is the field of development of trade and technical regulation, tariff, non-tariff cooperation, "Slepnov said.
the implementation of the industrial program laid the foundation for diversification of the economy. implementation of the industrial program has laid the foundations for the economic diversification .
in our country there is a large political campaign. as you know , our country is on the verge of a main political event .
During the talks, the parties discussed the development of bilateral relations in various areas, as well as exchanged views on topical issues on the regional and international agenda.
these are bills "on state support for industrial innovation," "On the economy," "On energy efficiency and energy conservation," the report said.
the memorandum provides for the promotion of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Expo-2017 exhibition as a tourist destination in Australia.
the launch of the dairy farm is scheduled for October this year.
social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps towards a society of universal labor. "
of the total number of employees of working age - 73.7% (6.2 million people) for employment, 26.3% (2.2 million people) - independently.
The head of state wished the team success, noting that all the necessary conditions for their work are being created in the region.
but a lot has been done for women in the economic sphere, the expert says.
the share of men among the unemployed is 43.9%, women - 56.1%.
the world of our leader. XXI century. "
in general, according to him, "work is underway to improve tourism.
According to the Vice Minister, the Central Asian states "can create a dialogue platform for discussing the most important issues of global and regional politics and the economy."
As you know, more than 100 states and 15 international organizations are expected to participate in Expo 2017.
we have developed courses that shape leadership qualities, "he said.
the experience of Kazakh constitutionalism, each component of which suggests that President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev deserved, "said V. Malinovsky.
we are developing alternative energy, every year a large number of quality transformers are required, "he said.
The head of the CEC praised the growth of Kazakhstan in the international arena, primarily on European and pan-Asian platforms. the head of the cec welcomed the growing role of kazakhstan in the international arena in the first place , on the pan-asian and eurasian spaces .
The main thing is that we must all work together, by mutual agreement and with great responsibility. the most important thing - we must work together seamlessly , respectively .
they can produce products not only in central Asian countries, but also in countries of flexibility, "said the director general.
we must make effective use of the economic potential of nearby countries.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
the same situation in criminal cases - the number of criminal cases examined in the accelerated pre-trial investigation decreased by 37%, in contractual proceedings - by 2.5 times, respectively, the proportion of prisoners sentenced to imprisonment decreased by 1.6%.
I am sure that with comprehensive support it will be interesting to work within the framework of this project, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
we see that a large number of the population visits burgundy, "grain" recreation areas in the Akmola region.
topical issues of Kazakh-Russian relations, the development of Eurasian integration and the world situation.
Ways of strengthening cooperation in trade, economic, investment, agricultural, transport and transit spheres, as well as cooperation in the field of international and regional security will also be considered.
this will allow citizens to adapt and quickly influence the new economic situation.
concessional lending programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020" are being implemented, including through joint projects with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development Bank.
in particular, on April 11-12, Nursultan Nazarbayev will visit the Iranian Islamic Republic at the invitation of President Hassan Rouhani.
Recall that from today in Kazakhstan, sales of online tickets for the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition began.
In total, the CEC approved 6 party lists: the nur otan party, the ak jol democratic party, the communist people's party "aul," the people's communist party of Kazakhstan, the political party "unity" and the national social democratic party.
the state, in turn, returns 100% of investments.
The agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu is a new generation document with the European Union and the Central Asian state, said Toivo Klaar.
direct all this to achieve the main goal in life, "said the head of state.
Recently, we recall this, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the second legalization is aimed at legalizing money without a 10 percent payment to a bank account, today 24 people legalized 1 billion tenge, he said.
as part of the project, a tripartite agreement was signed with Kazzolokom LLC, mainfield corporation limited and the investor service center at the Almaty Mayor's Office.
As part of this, we must attract creative people as soon as possible and create the project "Territory of Inspiration," said the project coordinator Svetlana Belova.
Kazakhstan is located in Asia, the country has the opportunity to develop alternative energy sources, "he said.
Between the women's and the national commission on family and demographic policy and the national company Astana Expo 2017, a concept of women's participation in Expo 2017 is being developed, within the framework of which 150 events will be organized.
Among you are mothers with many children, business representatives, the military, scientists, doctors, teachers, cultural and sports figures, journalists. among you there are mothers of large families , businesswomen , soldiers , scientists , doctors , teachers , cultural and sports figures , journalists .
At the international level, close cooperation has been established with all global, regional human rights organizations, partners abroad, including paia, unisefs, ecu, ec, the Council of Europe, the international coordinating committee of national law enforcement agencies and other organizations.
Last year, the 250kt Narimanovskaya solar power plant was commissioned and consists of a solar module of the Kazakh production of astana solar LLP.
firstly, it is necessary to note the work done by the Majilismen. first of all , it is vital to appreciate the work done by majilismen .
I always say that the well-being of society, each family is directly related to the well-being of a woman, "the head of state said.
secondly, the strategic project "Islamic infrastructure integration" should be developed and implemented.
first, journalists visited the happy garden kindergarten in Aktau.
In 2015, investments in production exceeded a billion tenge, this year this figure should be at least 3 billion tenge.
The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, speaking at the nuclear security summit in Washington, drew the attention of the entire world community to this problem.
samsung is a world-famous multinational company.
they ensure the stability of the economy, society and the State.
design and estimate documentation has been prepared, zero level of construction work has been completed.
Within the framework of the project to improve water supply to workers and Karasai districts of Almaty region, it is planned to build pipelines with a total length of 680 km in 15 rural settlements, including 234 km and a water supply system of 446 km, as well as water treatment plants with a capacity of 18.3 cubic meters per day and restore 6 existing drainage canals.
This is very important for everyone in the global world, "said the court R. Mammadov.
the guest came to Aktobe to meet with the companies Voskhod and Voskhod Chrome, which are part of the Lightning Group group.
To do this, a special domain was created dd.bnews.kz.
"Kazakhstan-2021: unit. stability. creation. "
everyone lost, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the government approves an action plan to promote the national brand of Kazakhstan.
In the first half of the year, 2 projects were implemented: Kazart - Arshalyn district - Mnz, stepnogorsk - "capital of oil."
Last year, eeo signed his first contract with Vietnam. the first contract of the eaeu with vietnam was signed last year .
the composer wrote three of the most successful operas - "bohemia," "longing" and "madam butterfly."
in the construction industry, our region produces cement, gypsum.
2014-2016 - timeline for the implementation of the Khorgos - East Gate project.
Thus, you create jobs and boost the country's economy.
I think that this fund will be fruitful and the first step will attract large investments in the agricultural sector of Kazakhstan, "he said.
Of course, this is the right direction - industrial and innovative development. of course , the industrial and innovative development is a very important direction .
According to the national Paralympic Committee, the competition will last two days.
at the congress of the party "Kazakhstan - 2021. unit. stability. creation. "
ballots were delivered to polling stations, "said B. Meldeshov.
many countries have found themselves in a difficult situation and are forced to reduce social incomes, stop projects, as a result of which unemployment is growing. many countries have found themselves in a difficult situation and are forced to cut social spending , suspend projects , resulting in rising unemployment .
this means that our national currency has been put into free mode, not "prison."
Western European-Western Chinese way, "akim said.
we observe stakeholders in cooperation from new areas. new regiona such as africa and latin america express interest in cooperation .
Kazakhstan, together with Magate, has created an international nuclear fuel bank.
In addition, 35,600 cultural events and concerts were held in the Turkestan Palace, in which 26 spectators took part, as well as paid services worth 8 million 750 thousand. Tenge.
Currently, two road projects are being implemented together with adb: "Western Europe - Western China" and "video whitewash."
everything goes in English, it means there will be young people, "the President of Kazakhstan noted.
- there is one thing for me in this matter.
This year, the Poles of Kazakhstan celebrate the 80th anniversary of resettlement from Ukraine to central Asia.
The rental cost per 1 square meter is 1 120 tenge in Almaty and Astana, in other regions up to 923 tenge.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
in the new economic environment, various methods of solving economic problems are used in other countries, such as Kazakhstan. in terms of the economic crisis , kazakhstan and other neighboring countries , including kyrgyzstan , need new approaches to the solution of economic problems .
in the coming years, the architectural appearance of the capital will be modernized and replenished with new facilities. in the coming years the architectural appearance of the capital will be updated and added by the new iconic objects .
According to the Minister, the revenues of the republican budget in 2016 were approved in the amount of 7364.1 billion tenge.
This achievement is the fruit of the wise policy of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we need to think from the global side, "he said.
The Chairman of the Board of Kazatomprom Uak JSC reported on the transfer of social facilities to local executive bodies, the withdrawal of 11 unprofessional enterprises to the competitive environment and the relocation of the offices of uranium mining enterprises to the regions where production was located last year.
According to the employment center, there is demand in the field of education, trade, health, catering, construction and services, the report said.
Today, Kazakhstan is at the stage of making difficult decisions, "the political scientist said.
It is very important for development that there are good geographical neighbors. "
During the meeting, the Polish delegation got acquainted with the investment potential and history of the region.
e.dosayev held a meeting with vice-president of the European investment bank Jan vapaavuror.
I am very happy about this cooperation, because Kazakhstan is a sports state that always occupies leading places in international sports competitions. i am very pleased with this cooperation , especially because kazakhstan always occupies a leading position in the international competitions in sports .
Among those who received the scholarship are O.Suleymen, M.Zholdasbekov, S.Sdosanov, B.Tulegenov, E.Hasangaliyev, Volonokonniki, A.Aashimov, Yu.Pomeranians, Sh.Murtaz, A.tarazi, a.molodov.
From January 1, 2016, wages in the field of health, education and social protection will increase by 40%, "the head of state said.
active cooperation and exchange of information with Great Britain, Austria, Sweden, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, the Baltic states and other countries. "
Recall, on November 30, 2015, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his annual message instructed the government to develop a new privatization program.
that is, great interest and opportunity, "said the minister.
- Vladimir Karlovich, good afternoon.
to appoint Donakov Talgat Sovetbekovich as Minister for Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the deputy head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the document says.
- Director of Azimut LLP of Kostanay region Khadanovich.
As of March 31, 2016, the amount of net cash [2] amounted to 1.051 billion tenge (3.1 billion US dollars) compared to 1.093 billion tenge (3.2 billion US dollars) as of December 31, 2015.
Kazakhstan and Thailand discussed the main vectors of trade and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Thailand, issues of investment of Thai capital in Almaty.
one of them is "monuments of the architectural paper of the frame state."
we must work to deliver this document to every person, "said and. Aronova.
All over the world, such work is being carried out, "said E. Kanagatov.
in turn, ya. the climate is an important political and trade and economic partner of Germany in central Asia.
after independence, Kazakhstan became one of the developed countries in Central Asia. after getting independence , kazakhstan has managed to become the most developed country in central asia .
I am sure that our country will be able to accumulate and mobilize in an unstable period.
the ambassador spoke to local academia, Kazakh and foreign students, voicing the audience in the framework of the message of the head of state "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050, "the new economic policy" Nұrly zhol, "the message of the head of state" Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development, "the national plan for the implementation of five institutional reforms and President N. other tasks related to the socio-economic and political development of the country, set by Nazarbayev.
when he talked about the threat, he talked about specific cyberspace.	it is a policy for the implementation of the peace initiative ,  - he said .
I commend Nursultan Nazarbayev's statement on the Iranian issue. i welcome the statement by nursultan nazarbayev associated with iran .
I want cooperation between fraternal countries to develop further, "said Adel al-Jubeira.
At this stage, we began construction of a new capital, the Caspian pipeline consortium for the export of Kazakh oil began work, and we launched the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy. Nazarbayev.
more than 30 transnational companies have arrived in Kazakhstan in recent years. in recent years , more than 30 multinational companies came to kazakhstan .
an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the ICD.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
To date, a memorandum has been signed between the Government of the Yeek and Mongolia, Chile and Peru.
During the meeting, the German side noted the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - Ashm) is working to attract Chinese companies rifa holding group, "" aiju, "" citic "and" cofco "as strategic investors in the development of agricultural processing in accordance with the plan of the nation" 100 concrete steps "(hereinafter - the project).
this is a general tax, a tax on lending to entrepreneurs, a special tax regime for small and medium-sized businesses, "the President said.
the transition to a new economy will attract the attention of all Kazakhstanis and travelers.
Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017 Akhmetzhan Yessimov and President of the Rosatom International Network complex Alexander Merdan took part in the signing ceremony.
today, the kha body in Kazakhstan can serve as an example for all countries. creation of such an organization in kazakhstan can serve as an example for all countries .
At the forum, this concept was discussed with the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. "
Work has been carried out in this direction. in this direction , we are carrying much work .
Dear Astana residents and guests of the city! dear astana 's residents and guests of the capital !
dear colleagues, dear Kazakhstanis! dear colleagues , dear people of kazakhstan !
We must not lose unity in order to achieve further success and success and recognize us as the whole world, "the president said.
The Eurasian nomadic empire - the great Turkish khaganate in the VI-VIII centuries - received the title "Turkic country," the golden horde of the XIII-XV centuries - "great ulus" (great ulus), the Kazakh khanate - "Kazakh country," he said.
there will be sausages, a meat yard "will be supplied to the retail network and will be accessible to the population," he added.
Bills "On Amending the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Guaranteed Transfer from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2018 "and" On Amending and Supplementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Republican Budget for 2016-2018," as well as "On Employment" are submitted for discussion by the Senate.
According to the program, women have an advantage in participating in the program.
Multilateral cooperation between the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan is of great importance within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
Also of great importance are such large-scale projects as the Western Europe-Western China transport road, Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India.
national teams of Astana, Almaty, Karaganda, Shymkent and Semey will take part in competitions.
at the congress of the party "Kazakhstan - 2021. unit. stability. creation. "
We are pleased to become participants of EXPO-2017 in Astana. we are very happy to participate in expo-2017 in astana .
Kazakhstan today is a market state, and not an employer state, it is an individual entrepreneur.
Therefore, I think that in March we will see a new parliament, new political circles, new political forces.	another issue is that we need new people , new ideas , new political leaders .	1,39
In addition, as part of the Baiterek Nұrly zhol program, 2 residential buildings for 126 and 72 apartments are being built.
The main priority is investment in human capital, infrastructure development, the Kazakh generation, the head of state said.
Thus, Chinese investors are interested in the project to build a private airport for the Kenderley resort.
The exhibition opened on the occasion of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. this exhibition is dedicated to the day of the first president of kazakhstan .
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
happy Holiday! "- said in a congratulation.
It includes representatives of the Nұr Otan party, the Development Enterprise Development Fund, medical workers, and lawyers.
we must speak three languages, "said K. Azken.
Today, 27 thousand students study at 48 college, of which 13,550 are state orders, he said.
we support the message to the people of Kazakhstan. we fully support the address of president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev to the people of kazakhstan .
59 laws entered into force, forming a fundamentally new legal environment for the development of the state, economy and society.
first of all, this will reduce costs.
In accordance with the presidential decree adopted on November 18, 2015, a loan agreement was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Asian Development Bank in the amount of $1 billion. the loan agreement between the republic of kazakhstan and the asian development bank in the amount of $ 1 billion has been signed in accordance with the decree number 115 dated november 18 , 2015 .
the Frosinon Chamber of Commerce and the National Export and Investment Agency "kaznex invest" signed a memorandum of confidence in international cooperation.
This project is based on a partnership between Kazakstan Temir Zholy and the French company Alstom.
it is a project aimed at supporting countries in the Asian, African and Caribbean zones.
the concert will be attended by Major Muhammedovna, Gulnur Orazymbetov, celebration, Akhmetov, Batyrzhan Myktybayev, Erlan Yaw, Eaten Kusain, Asel Rakhimzhan and the Satjan Project group.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated everyone on the coming New Year and wished our country well-being, peace and harmony in every house.
the Chamber is also considering bills "on mail," "on lottery and lottery activities."
317 billion tenge was allocated to ank through Kazagroholding, of which 56 billion were allocated to restructure the financing of entrepreneurs.
today there are specific projects. today there are new joint projects .
Note that in the capital in the Palace of Independence, chaired by the President of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party Nursultan Nazarbayev, an extraordinary XVII party congress is being held.
this is a very important component, "he said.
I propose to discuss some issues here, "the head of state said.
The participation of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan, President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almazbek Atambayev and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin is planned.
The President of Kazakhstan spoke about the work done on the construction of universiade facilities and the organization of international competitions.
dear Nursultan Abishevich, your independence. agreement. a nation of a united future. "
today we meet to discuss important and relevant issues in economic unity and decision-making.
A meeting was also held with volunteers of the region.
in their opinion, this initiative is a real source of Kazakhstan's exit from the global economic crisis.
Shymkent city will be located in the northern part of the kalana, near the monument to the dance of the baidibek.
- Vyacheslav Olegovich, you know Kazakhstan well.
therefore, this year the government began work with a new program, we wrote a lot of laws, "said the ex-deputy.
42.1 billion tenge was invested in the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is also interested in developing cooperation with Iran in such areas as medicine, biotechnology, agricultural technology, space technology.
According to the bakhtiyar kopbosynov, a significant contribution to increasing the specific gravity of the breeding stock is made by the peasant farms of our region for the production of high-quality milk, "bachor," "melt bulak," "find," "zhailau," "nart."
all these laws are aimed at developing the country's economy and modernizing our society, "he said.
in this regard, the creation of an international council at the highest court is a vivid example of the fact that Kazakhstan is working to attract foreign investment and improve the investment climate, the judicial system and raise the level of judges, "said Hwangzhong li.
we went to four polling stations. we have visited four polling stations .
the parties discussed trade and economic relations between Kazakhstan and Georgia, cooperation in the industrial and brutal spheres, the application of transit size between the two countries, mainly, the development of the trans-Caspian international transport route, mutual protection of investments.
tripartite memoranda were signed in the Stepnogorsk city akimat with the enterprises of Sghk LLP, Celingormash, Stepnogorsk - Energy Complex and Heat Technologies of Kazakhstan.
Development Fund "has been working for 5 years as a financial agency of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
investments are moving through the reforms carried out by the government of Kazakhstan. "
to appoint Myrzakhmetov Askar Isabekovich as Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the decree says.
in conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan addressed all the youth of the country.
We cooperate with Spain, Bulgaria and Eastern European countries, "he said.
I think that we should work together, in the future we should consider new ways of innovation and investment, "he said.
If in 2014 there were 478 rehabilitated, then in 2015 - 743 people, "said a.rachmetulin.
During the visit, a meeting of the head of state with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is scheduled.
The delegation includes representatives of all ministries, representatives of the Kha, Damu Foundation and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, Kazagro Holding.
the Moroccan side confirmed support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018 and the participation of rabat in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
On the eve of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, a strong state is being created, which plays an important role in the world political arena. on the eve of the 25th anniversary of independence , we have built strong state playing an important role on the world political arena .
project implementation consists of two stages.
The construction of the plant continues.
Kazakhstan and Australia.	there also was a business conference  kazakhstan and australia .
As the head of state noted, "we are doing work that withstands the crisis."
During the conference, they discussed the state of military security in our country, the main core of which is the military organization of the state. it 's planned to discuss the state of the military security system existing in our country , its main core - the military organization of the state .
According to the minister, for the actual execution of the instructions of the head of state, the government adopted ambitious plans and a "special stage" plan that ensures economic growth.
For the further development of domestic cinematography this year, the concept of development of a separate Kazakhstan film industry will be developed, - said a.muhamediuly.
the non-use of these "dirty" technologies.
As previously reported, at a meeting with representatives of Aidu, tamara duissenova discussed the further implementation of the projects "Policy Review aimed at protecting three groups: youth, older workers and vulnerable segments of the population," "Health System Review for Kazakhstan Eidu" and "Review of National Health Accounts for Kazakhstan."
the parties discussed the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Vietnam in the field of transport and logistics.
in the message, the head of state spoke about the new economic situation in which Kazakhstan should develop. in the address the president talked a lot about the new economic reality , which implies new external conditions under which kazakhstan should develop .
women work in small and medium-sized businesses, move into large businesses, and every year open many enterprises.
- Director of the sange research center, initiator of the first anti-corruption fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan "transparency-Kazakhstan" Zhanar Zhandosova;
The American public administration society, the Asian public administration society and the regions of the global world also cooperate as a hub, "he said.
according to him, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev pays great attention to the field of education.
and in the republic there are more than 40 dealers in such large cities as the capital, diamonds, shymkent, karaganda, taraz, aktobe, overgrown, kostanay, families, kyzylorda, ural and atyr.
this work is carried out within the framework of comprehensive cooperation with the Ministry of National Economy, regional, district and rural akimats, "he said.
he also influenced central Asia.
The volume of attracted investments in the region grew by 18.8% and amounted to 270.0 billion tenge, "- said the head of state.
this is the third project implemented on the business roadmap. this is the third project , implemented by the business roadmap , " s. shauenova has said .
Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness was highlighted.
During the meeting with the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan, we talked about our partnership, partnership with buubd.
if you look at 20 projects in the industry - in the transport industry, in chemistry and petrochemistry - 15 projects, in metallurgy - 5 projects, in the food industry - 30 projects, in the construction industry - 30 projects and much more, "the minister said.
Us television produces films all over the world.
we put taxes in our price. we make changes to the tax code .
this is a global process that no country, including Kazakhstan, could influence.
the percentage of women in the Majilis is 27.1 per cent.
we are ready to hold a business forum to develop ties between entrepreneurs of our countries, "said Khamzaevich.
we opened a modern education system, intellectual schools, an international university in the capital. we have created a modern education system , intellectual schools and international university in astana .
The formation of our country as an independent, successfully developing state is closely connected with the name of the head of state, leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev. the formation of our country as the independent and successfully developing nation is inextricably linked with the name of head of state , leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev .
the agreement will cover many cooperation issues.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 noted the conditions for business development in Kazakhstan and the favorable investment climate in Kazakhstan.
According to this program, 3.6 billion tenge was allocated this year, a water intake "steppe" was built.
responsibility for these works lies directly with the akims of the region in which this activity will be carried out. the responsibility for this work is laid personally on each akim , in whose region this activity will be carried out .
on this day, solemn events and national holidays will be held in all regions of Kazakhstan.
during this period, we began the construction of a new capital - the capital, the Caspian pipeline consortium began to work, the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy started.
During the meeting, important issues of the development of domestic science and the main directions of Kazakhstan's economic policy were discussed.
we are interested in further establishing business cooperation, "said the cramer.
now it will be the state corporation Roscosmos.
Council members discussed a number of documents aimed at deepening the economic integration of the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
Recall that the exhibition "Tadeh-2016" is being held for the fourth time.
the purpose of the project is to show modernization in the field of social projects in the republic.
If at the beginning of the year contracts with national companies under the "samruk-kazyna" line were planned for 3.3 trillion tenge, then we increased this figure to 4.2 trillion tenge.
the first is growth.
The project cost is 20.0 million tenge.
two years ago he participated in the program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
we have been working for three years on a project to involve women in the green economy. "
The meeting was attended by representatives of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Court of First Instance - District Court.
- What new year is important for representatives of religion?
and the development of mutual effectiveness of trade and economic cooperation between countries.
we have significant ties, we are friends and partners.
this will facilitate the development of economic relations between countries, we have many areas of cooperation, "he said.
the bill is aimed at implementing the Concept for the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a "green economy."
it is planned that it will be approved this year.
Zh. Aitzhanova discussed with the interlocutor topical issues of bilateral and Kazakh cooperation, as well as prospects for promoting cooperation.
I thank all deputies for the state position and high historical responsibility, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the pair, eidu, the European Union, Kazakhstan, China, Korea, Turkey and the CIS countries, being its participants and partners, talk about the effectiveness of this platform and jointly finance the hub's activities.
The project of a successful step has been implemented in our country for the fourth year.
secondly, the budget amounted to 446.5 billion tenge, which indicates an increase of 94.2 billion tenge, "he said.
but we, as usual, do everything we mean.
economic growth, successful reforms and sustainable development will be the main objectives of our integrated plan.
our unity is our main value.
this sector of the economy is one of the key sectors of the country. this area of the economy is crucial for our country .
the necessary conditions for work are created, and doctors must improve their qualifications for the benefit of the country, "the head of state said.
Law 5 of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of the activities of autonomous educational organizations"; about the approval of rules of commercialization of results of scientific and technical activity ";" about introduction of amendments to some acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan concerning commercialization of results of scientific and scientific and technical activity ";" about the public youth policy."
Kazakhstan has always been an ambitious country.
this holiday is pleasing, creating.
What is your opinion on this strategic document?
In the next 5 years, $38 billion will be spent, "the minister said.
D. Kuanyshev, speaking about the preparation of the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital, invited the Cypriot side to take part.
medicine and biotechnology, information and communication technologies, photonics, aerospace technologies, nuclear and radiation technologies, energy, transport technologies, metallurgical technologies and new materials, natural resources production and oil and gas processing technologies, electronics and engineering, environmental development, industrial technologies, agriculture and the food industry.
The parties also discussed issues of regional cooperation in the Central Asian zone of the international agenda.
In 2016, Aktobe region plans to implement 10 investment projects worth 14.6 billion tenge and create 694 jobs.
your republic is the most important African state, and cooperation with it is a great honor for us, "the head of state said.
microcredit for entrepreneurship development is expanding.
At the same time, we work with German colleagues "icmd."
in this regard, Kazakhstan is a pioneer in the CIS countries and Central Asia.
At the same time, national operators should show social responsibility, that is, a special tariff should be provided for schools, "the head of state said.
in particular, to counter terrorism, extremism and protect the state border.
From 2010 to the present, 480 projects totaling 84.7 billion tenge were supported in the framework of the Unified Program for Business Support and Development "BZHK-2020," of which 67 projects worth 12.1 billion tenge were approved in 2015.
this will expand our capabilities and strengthen the eo, "said the head of state.
As of November 26, members of the working group of Kazakhstan conducted training in 9 regions of the republic: the capital and Almaty, Karaganda, Akmola, Alma-Ata, North Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, South Kazakhstan and Aktobe regions.
According to him, since the beginning of the new year, the situation began in a negative way, "Asian and European stock markets have collapsed."
Recall that the head of the region, B. Katamkulov, in a report to the population on the work done in 2015, said that work will be carried out in the Baidibek regions to develop livestock production, and camel milk collection points will be opened.
we therefore support the active and broad participation of international observers in the elections.
For three years, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan has been cooperating with the team of the European Union project on regional development of Kazakhstan. "
at the fourth international exhibition "kadex-2016" "Kazakhstan Engineering" will present samples of white naval weapons "zixto" - bottom mines.
we must create an optimal environment for attracting "capital investment."
In this matter, the government and the national bank need to develop specific proposals, "the head of state said.
Representatives of the Kazakh companies "total impex," "Chinese" aiju "and the Chinese consul in Alma-Ata took part in the solemn departure ceremony of the container train.
The state program "Employment Roadmap 2020" is the most successful and effective program in the region.
for example, a Kazakhstani company planning to enter the international market at the Tadeh-2016 exhibition will be presented as Semipalatinsk Engineering.
Astana expo-2017, "the road show provides detailed information on the thematic and cultural program of the international specialized exhibition" expo-2017. "
I hope that this will be a new opportunity for the further deepening of our good friendly relations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Delegations of the unions of machine-builders of foreign states - Kazakhstan, Belarus, Armenia, France, Italy, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Argentina, China - were invited to participate in the congress.
in Serbia, the President of Kazakhstan considers as the creator of a Eurasian economic union uniting two contingents.
For example, now we work at the facilities of the Balkash, Zhezkazgan, Satpayev, Ridder School, Arkalyk, "he said.
in a crisis, every tenge is important.
It was attended by heads of leading British and international business industries, heads of investment companies, representatives of parks and others, "the report said.
Note that the "ant group" was the first trip of the Turkish corporation to the city of rehabilitation.
This is a very important event for Kazakhstanis.
tax revenues amounted to 38.6 billion tenge.
In total, in 2016, the construction of 33 schools will be completed in Kazakhstan, and their construction began in 2015, "said K. Bishimbayev.
- Are there first appointments to maslikhats?
The leaders of the United States, Germany, Japan, Jordan, Spain, Kazakhstan, China, Hungary, Norway, South Korea, Great Britain, the Philippines, Finland, France, the Czech Republic and Sweden, meeting in connection with the 4th Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, DC, support the following statement:
it was important to know your minimum budget. it is very important to know the minimum budget .
Today, in his portfolio, the winner of the World Cup, multiple champion of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international master of sports, holder of a license for the 2016 Olympic Games, as well as first place in the ranking of the Sports Shooting Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan according to the results of this year.
I congratulate you on the theme of the exhibition. i congratulate you on the theme of the exhibition .
The revenue budget of the region amounted to 202.2 billion tenge with a growth of the plan by 3.1%.
Participants of the meeting discussed the reforms in the context of the indicators of the "doing business" rating, the ongoing work to improve the business climate in Kazakhstan.
As part of the modernization program, stf "kairat" was launched into a new project based on agriculture.
On February 11-12, 2016, a meeting of the expert group of the CIS member states will be held in Moscow (Russian Federation) to agree on a draft agreement on cooperation between the CIS member states in the field of the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes.
the visit of the Prime Minister of Japan will expand the horizons of investment and technological cooperation.
the first reform is the creation of a professional state apparatus. the first reform is the creation of the professional state apparatus .
however, in some developed countries of the world this indicator has decreased significantly, "he said.
B. Zhumakhanov announced a lot of work on holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Kazakhstan.
in Spain there are world companies that are world leaders. "
energy of the future: during the session of world trends and technologies, international and national experts made recommendations to improve the content of EXPO 2017 and discussed trends in the development of green energy.
the future of a united nation is the justice of the law. "
this will increase the literacy of citizens to go to court, "said Mr. Abdygalieva.
it is important to adapt the processes of international disarmament to the new historical conditions.
the project will continue throughout the year in other regions of Kazakhstan.
and this period we have passed with dignity, "the President of Kazakhstan noted.
We start on time, "said N. Nazarbayev.
This year, given the large-scale construction of expo-2017 facilities, the indicators seem to be no lower than last year.
therefore, humanity needs a broad programme, the twenty-first century: a world without war.
Therefore, we must unite and help each other, "said the head of state.
According to the head of state. "
we know the hospitality of Kazakhstan, we look forward to coming to Almaty, "he said.
- it is better to ask about the first program "Nұrly Zhol."
Of course, we thank the head of state for creating an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan. of course , we want to thank the president for creation of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
on the instructions of the head of state, excitement is carried out in Kazakhstan. kazakhstan is implementing the state program of industrial-innovative development ( siid ) .
The main thing is that it is the people of Kazakhstan and will contribute to strengthening the economic and political foundations of Kazakhstani society in the future, "he said.
liquid oil, medical equipment, medicines, tissues: white and black fat, "said the ambassador.
The first exit poll was conducted by the National Research Association "Institute of Democracy."
this is an essential part in strengthening the economy and market.
Kazakhstan is an important partner of Armenia in the direction of trade and economic relations. kazakhstan is an important trade and economic partner of armenia .
according to Nursultan Nazarbayev, these difficulties restrain the development of many countries of the Islamic world as much as possible.
all social subjects are touched", - the head of the train told" the M g_l_k ate "amirzhan alpeis.
We held the first meeting of the commission last week, considered the supply of counterfeit products, batteries, cable products, "he said.
- N.Nazarbayev noted that as a result of economic instability there is a political component.
economy, political formation.
high hopes are placed on the main composition of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heavy burden on responsibility and dependence, there is confidence that new people will be able to be in parliament, use new tools and implement "100 concrete steps" of the nation, "said M. Nurgaliev.
basically, it was about the implementation of the steel plant project.
1 . To convene the first session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the sixth convocation at 10 a.m. on March 25 in Astana.
a program of industrial and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and China is being implemented.
the future of Kazakhstan is our sacred "eternal country."
Since this year, public councils have begun to work, in accordance with which a law has entered into force, which shows that the holding of elections is another step towards democratization in Kazakhstan, "he said.
I congratulate everyone on graduating from Nazarbayev University. i would like to congratulate all of you on graduating the nazarbayev university .
we are open in all directions and are ready to discuss their points, "said Ms. Zhsanova.
the world we know is changing rapidly. the world is changing rapidly .
we are opening new enterprises. we are constantly opening new businesses .
we were at the factory under construction. we visited the newly built factory .
this work is carried out on the basis of close competition.
totaling 41.4 billion tenge.
the new parliament should work "continuously."
Kazakhstan is the first State in the Central Asian region to sign such an agreement with the European Union.
Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan - 7.14%
I instruct Kazakhstan to carry out this work, "the head of state said.
mastering the transit potential of the Omsk region is one of our main goals, "said V. Nazarov.
active economic growth allowed the Kazakh government to pursue a decisive social policy.
Spain is one of the largest EU countries, "he said.
in the program structure.
I am very happy about this, "he said.
the state provides assistance to small and medium-sized businesses and agriculture.
large-scale work has been carried out. a huge work was done .
Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev is the investment ombudsman in Kazakhstan.
... "In Kazakhstan, there is a high effectiveness of the restriction, we localize all the accumulated products in the country of the former union," A. Puparzh said.
The Kazakh delegation, headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Roman Vasilenko, included the heads of the National Agency for Export and Investment "kaznex invest," the International Financial Center "Capital," the International Union of Automobile Carriers "kazato" and other interested organizations.
it is planned that on the same day the head of state will meet with the Metropolitan of Astana and Kazakhstan Alexander.
this year marks the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence. this year kazakhstan will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the independence .
I think about this, I am in the ranks of the Nur Otan party, perhaps also from this party, "said the press service.
One of the directions of the center is the implementation of the concept of "industry 4.0."
April 30 this year marks the 22nd anniversary of the diplomatic agreement established between our countries.
- Thanks for the interview.
- thanks for the interview.
- Thanks for the interview.
a stable economy, a stable policy, a stable society is the direction that we will adhere to in the future, "the head of state said.
the topics we are discussing are joint studies of empires, Scythian-Sarmatian archeology, Buddhism in central Asia, Turkic value. the topics that we are discussing are joint study of the nomadic empires , scythian and sarmatian archeology , buddhism in central asia , turkic antiquities .
applications are accepted until 12.00 pm on March 20 of the current year.
this is a very effective solution, "said K. Kadyrzhanov.
in addition, the capital has become a donor to our budget.
we, the Kazakh Council of Lawyers, take an active part in explaining the legislation to the population. we , kazakhstan union of lawyers , actively participate in the discussions of the law , in their explanations to the public .
According to the Governor, 10 projects were launched as part of the industrialization program in 2015, 600 new jobs were created.
no exaggeration. there are no failures .
The training center "People's Academy of Green Technologies and Practices" opened in September this year.
in our scientific and expert environment there should be an informed opinion on these challenges, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Romania, noting the interest of Romanian business in the development of cooperation, called on Romanian companies to implement investment projects in Kazakhstan.
Last year, by order of the head of state, a directorate of public consent was created. "
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the Eurasian Economic Union completed the first year of its development, this period was not easy.
46 projects worth 11 billion tenge have been approved as part of the industrialization program.
For many years, the President of Kazakhstan has worked to ensure that our country is prestigious, prosperous, "he said.
secondly, in the world ranking of countries creating the most favorable conditions for business, Kazakhstan took 41st position.
today I announced new measures aimed at strengthening our economy, state and society.
we do not consider import substitution as a ban for foreign producers, but as a new opportunity for Kazakhstan's business, "he said.
Members of the Council considered issues of improving the activities of the parliamentary assembly of the parliament, amending and supplementing a number of governing documents, as well as making adjustments to the Program of activities for the rapprochement and harmonization of national legislation of member states in 2016-2020 and the work plan of the council for 2016.
2 . "To invalidate Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of February 5, 2015 No. 32" On the Appointment of an Investment Ombudsman "(page of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2015, No. 3, Art. 16)," the text of the document says.
strengthening of labor collectives, issues of wages, social guarantees.
Opening the meeting, the chairman of the committee noted that the new codes adopted in 2014 were designed to strengthen constitutional guarantees for the protection of individual rights, ensure fair trial and legal liability measures.
and in the nomination "best food products" it was decided that the LLP "Madeleine-kz" (yuko), LLC "Akbars nk" (Kostanay region) are worthy of a special prize "business."
the purpose of this project is the development of tourism infrastructure, the provision of tourist services through the prism of folk custom, national cuisine, an exposition of all the beauty of our culture for tourists.
in addition, the monetary policy of the national bank should contribute to the sustainable development of the economy, "the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
implementation of joint projects in industrial production, creation of conditions for sustainable inflow of foreign investments and development of mutual trade, - said K. Maxim.
worked little, "said the head of state.
In this hall Nursultan Nazarbayev held meetings with heads of foreign delegations, heads of state, in particular with presidents of Azerbaijan, Russia, Belarus and other countries.
this is a good example for other investors, "said the head of state.
dear guests, scientists, I congratulate you on the international forum. dear guests , scholars , we congratulate you on holding the international forum .
According to him, a memorandum of cooperation between Long Hin and the Governor's Office of Beskaragai region was signed at the Altai Agroinvest investment forum in the city of
Also, an office will be provided for akhko, which will be equipped above the Astana Expo-2017 site.
the country's capabilities are limited, conditions for small markets are aggravated, these barriers need to be eliminated, "he said.
of these, 245 are industry, 692 are trade, 175 are transport and communications, 490 are education and health, 498 are construction and utilities, the remaining 1,165 are other economic activities.
The head of state paid special attention to the formation of a new social policy.
In September, we must complete the construction and replenish thematic pavilions with national content, "he said.
Kazakhstan has become an authoritarian and full member of the world community, and the Kazakh development model is associated with the name of the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
agriculture, food and light industry, pharmaceuticals are an important topic for our region. agriculture , light and food industries , as well as pharmaceuticals are very important for us .
In the 3rd quarter of 2015, the largest average per capita nominal monetary income of the population was observed in the city of Astana, Atyrau region, as well as in Almaty, where this indicator exceeded the average republican level by 2.0-1.8 times.
today we offer the results of our collective work for the year. today , we present the result of one year hard work .
during economic trials, we continue measures of social protection of the population. despite the economic risks , the state will continue the implementation of the social support .
general contractor - Bekzhan Stroy LLP.
there is a direct path to the market, "the akim of the region said.
Kazakhstan pavilion is represented by the Embassy of Kazakhstan and Air Astana national air carrier, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
It should be noted that in Uzbekistan, state support for business, legal assistance in stimulating small and medium-sized businesses occupy an important place in the state's economic policy.
we have established close relations with the Republic of Kazakhstan on green economy projects.
today we are a European people, but do not forget that our roots are in the east.
work.
33 objects and securities worth 1016.3 million tenge were legalized.
Of course, the manifesto of N. Nazarbayev is the main and not the last periodic work of the head of state to preserve stability and security in our world. certainly , the manifesto of n. nazarbayev is one of the main and not last stages of the work of the head of state for the preservation of stability and security all over the world on our planet .
everyone worked together in the same country, so I instruct all akims and the government to use this reserve, "the head of state said.
this will allow completing three years of geological work, "said B. Nurabayev.
At the end of the meeting, the parties expressed confidence in the further development of successful bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
The Kazakh economy is faced with the task of adapting to external conditions, "said the Vice Minister of Energy.
We plan to develop various formats and meeting areas, "said the head of the delegation.
During the meeting, senators got acquainted with the units of the ground control complex "accol," which provides control of the telecommunications satellites "kazsat-2" and "kazsat-3."
And the burden that our ancestors have survived, we must always remember, "said the head of state.
we won the africa eco race rally marathon, took first place in the absolute category.
Ruslan Ospan, editor-in-chief of the sovereign Kazakh newspaper zhanbolat aupbayev, chief editor of the Khabar agency and laura tusupbekova from the Kazakhstanskaya Pravda newspaper, were awarded the honorary badge "For Merit in the Development of Press and Information."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the program of framework partnership between the Government of Kazakhstan and the United Nations for 2016-2020 demonstrates reaching a qualitatively new level of cooperation.
- Deputy Chairman of the "aul" party;
processing of products increased from 168.7 billion tenge to 397.4 billion tenge.
during which Ambassador and. Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov and Chairman of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (iu) presented the joint invitation of the Iad Madi to participate in the founding session of the General Assembly of the Islamic Organization for Food Security (akiu) and the 7th Conference of Ministers of Agriculture, which will be held in the capital from April 26 to 28, 2016.
Despite the fact that many books about the president have been published, I think that we, Kazakhstanis, better understand the personality of the head of state and the new history of our country compared to foreign authors, "the author said.
the most high-quality food products: Rybprom LLP (happiness of musans), Ayan-ozat LLP (Svetlana Turuk), ice-plus LLP (gendaulet myraif).
We believe that everyone approaches this historical event, "he said.
According to the Vice Minister, a number of mechanisms have been developed for this.
past elections are a historically important event for our country. the elections are historic for our country .
I left you and, despite the fact that I became president, I could not have achieved all this without the support of our great people, "the head of state said.
according to our plans, we will not give this bernd to many enterprises, they will be considered, including Air Astana, Rakhat, he added.
Joint work within the framework of the European Union-Central Asian Partnership Strategy has had a positive impact on bilateral cooperation, in particular in the areas of improving the legal and judicial system, the rule of law and human rights.
safety, service and comfort should be provided at transport infrastructure facilities, the akim said.
fundamentals of the new investment policy
Kazakhstan is assessed as a stable country in modern economic conditions. kazakhstan is a stable country , even within the current economic situation .
According to the EBRD president, last year more than 1.4 billion euros were invested in central Asia.
The press conference will be held with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy."
the next few years will be more difficult for Kazakhstan. the next several years will be quite difficult for kazakhstan .
I am sure that our youth will be responsible for the care of the state with the best training, successes in sports and creativity, serving their homeland, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The Ministry of Culture and Sports plans within the framework of the Year of Italy in Kazakhstan. there is a plan of the ministry of culture and sport to hold the year of italy in kazakhstan .
In addition, the head of the ministry noted that the first five-year plan of industrialization used the proposals of the World Bank, erdb, mckinsey, bcg and others.
in addition, commemorative coins "from a series of coins" commemorative events and homogenous people. "Esenberlin 100 years old," railway Tashenev 100 years old, "e.bekmachanovka 100 years old" are issued from a mixture of neisilbers with a face value of 50 tenge.
Once again, Nursultan Nazarbayev is a great leader of the international level, "said Ilkat Reissenen.
The anti-crisis plan for economic and social stability for 2016-2018 has been approved by the government.
Therefore, it is important to maintain social stability, ensure employment of the population, financial support for small and medium-sized businesses, and the implementation of the Nұr Zhol program, the President of Kazakhstan said.
we are ready to work on their standards.
economic cooperation is the basis of Kazakh-Polish relations. the economic cooperation is the basis of the kazakh-polish interaction .
I urge to support this bill, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
In addition, the foreign ministers discussed the situation in Afghanistan and measures to restore peace and stability, confirmed the importance of a political settlement of the crisis in Ukraine, the situation in the middle east and north Africa on the basis of the good faith implementation of the Minsk agreements of February 12, 2015.
co-chair of the Kazakh side was the chairman of the board "tengri bank" e.shaikenov.
only diversification of spending will take Kazakhstan and the eurozone countries to a new level of economic development, "the political scientist said.
Kazakhstan faces a very difficult decision in a political and military situation. kazakhstan is facing a very big choice in the political and military terms .
our task is to preserve our values. " Nazarbayev.
at the same time, our sovereignty will be its foundation, "said A. Solovieva.
Recall that the international exhibition expo will be held from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
The head of state always pays special attention to social issues. the head of state always pays great attention to the social issues .
As of February 8, 155 candidates for deputies of the maslikhat were nominated in the region. as of february 8 , 2016 , 155 candidates for the maslikhats have been nominated .
first, we will create a program format as white paper "(" the white paper") which is easy for reading, and becomes clear to such users as the industry, the area, experts.
a new political period is beginning in our country. apparently , a new political cycle is being started in our country and it is caused by a number of serious reasons .
if one door is closed, the next will open and a new one will appear, "he said.
Last year, we moved to a new stage of reform - 5 institutional reforms. last year we started a new stage of reform - five most important institutional changes .
construction will be carried out in two stages.
cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union has now entered a new stage of development. we are about to enter a brand new stage of cooperation between kazakhstan and the eu .
in 2015 alone, 1,823 documents were received, of which 1,568 were draft government decrees, 161 were draft presidential statutes, 94 were draft prime minister decrees.
In this regard, our project, implemented by the World Bank, will be considered, "the minister said.
privatization in the public sector, companies formed within the national company will be privatized, "said the political scientist.
Nursultan Nazarbayev urged all Kazakhstanis, social groups in society to support this decision.
as part of this work, the center held intensive negotiations with the London Stock Exchange and Metal Exchange, nasdaq, Chicago Commodity Exchange, nasdaq dubai, New York Stock Exchange.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished all Kazakhstanis health, well-being and well-being.
protection of the rights of the child in legislation; Post office; lotteries and lottery activities; Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy; ecology; consumer protection; amendments on grain market regulation are considered in the first reading.
the new production initiative arose as a result of the coordinated work of colleagues and employees of the kmg-processing-marketing group of white companies, Petrokazakhstan oil products LLP, the leading contracting company china petroleum engineering (cr.), Atyrau Mns and Phz.
we highly appreciate all efforts in the framework of modernization of Kazakhstan.
biterek venture fund - our 100% organization and its total capitalization is 12.7 billion tenge.
At the same time, they are being tested accordingly, "he added.
In the future, the national company Astana Expo-2017 will hold joint events for the international exhibition Transtelecom.
the signed agreement between kazatomprom and converdyn will bring both companies to a new level. the agreement signed today between kazatomprom and converdyn boosts up cooperation between the two companies to a new level .
I admire your leadership in central Asia and the outside world. i want to welcome your leadership in central asia and beyond .
new sources of external investment
In addition, in 2014-2015, work was carried out on 37 objects and 20 objects of minerals, 15 - hydrogeological work - 15 objects and 2 oil and gas facilities.
Of course, the first question is ensuring life.
The complex will be launched in 2019-2020.
Kazakhstan is not moving away from the global trend and is changing the economy to a "green" basis, "he said.
Kazakhstan has entered the stage of modernization. kazakhstan has entered a new period of modernization .
the investment program is based on their relative advantages, will be aimed at determining investment priorities for each macro-region, forming drivers of regional economic growth, developing small and medium-sized businesses within the framework of large regional projects, as well as ensuring macroeconomic diversification and import substitution, "said Zh.Sharabasov.
we support your proposals, if necessary, "the head of the region told a foreign guest.
dear compatriots! dear compatriots !
dear compatriots! dear compatriots !
December 1 - the first mass elections, December 10 - proclaimed by the Republic of Kazakhstan, December 16 - Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2) grant foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities, as well as legal entities whose share in the authorized capital of foreigners, stateless persons, foreign legal entities exceeds fifty percent, the right of temporary land use on the terms of leasing agricultural land plots;
trade, economy and business relations between regions and countries, presentation of investment opportunities in the field, improvement of projects of interest to foreign investors.
the principle of cooperation is self-government, joint activity and equality of all its participants ("one participant - one vote").
- Memorandum of Understanding between Bayterek ubx and the National Development Fund of Iran.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan, the official delegation included representatives of Food Contract Corporation JSC and Kazakh agricultural producers (Empire food LLP, Capital Business LLC, Eurasian Agricultural Holding LLC, Cotton Company LLP, Baltic Control Kazakhstan LLP).
According to Kazakhfilm, the event was attended by representatives of the Embassy of Kazakhstan, the public organization "House of Asia," the consular corps in Barcelona and Kazakh students.
we live in a stable and tolerant state, "said Vladimir Salakhov.
Usually the event is held in New York and two regional regions: London (includes Europe, Middle East, African) and Shanghai (includes Asia-Pacific, China, Australia).
x. The President of Kazakhstan highly appreciated the domestic and foreign policy pursued by Nursultan Nazarbayev.
I believe that our expanded partnership and cooperation agreement will form the basis for political and economic ties between the two countries of a new model.
At that time, such complex projects as "the crescent development project" did not begin in the country, and even the program of the President of Azerbaijan on the construction of 4-5 stations per year was only being developed.
this is a successful initiative of Kazakhstan as a full member of the WTO, "the head of state said.
The construction of 1 house for 100 apartments and 2 houses for 60 apartments will begin this year and will begin in 2017.
every year we hold a day of remembrance of the victims of political repression. every year we hold the memorial day of victims of political repressions .
It is also planned to include the project in the first direction of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
this year was interesting for me, I found new friends, work stabilized, I moved to a new stage of my life. 2015 was very interesting for me , i met new friends , found a job , familiarized with the new stage of my life .
secondly, on the development of the industry "new economy."
we are now doing a second review with eidu and are planning to complete it this year. now we 're doing a second review with the oecd and this year plan to complete it .
work in this direction will continue.
our team comes to Kazakhstan for the first time. our team has arrived in kazakhstan for the first time .
As part of this work, the center is negotiating with the best world exchanges: London Exchange Fund and Metal Exchange, nasdaq, Chigak Commodity Exchange, nasdaq dubai, New York Exchange Fund, "said K. Kelimbetov.
its main theme will be "a new economic situation: diversification, innovation and the education of the economy."
in June, it is planned to hold one event in Ababa, "said A.Baimenov.
Therefore, I wish well-being to everyone, every family, every citizen, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The patriotic act "g_l_k ate m" was adopted on assembly of the people of Kazakhstan in April of this year.
We will divide this work into two stages, "he said.
geopolitical and geoeconomic changes are taking place in the world. there are deep geo-economic and geopolitical developments in the world .
new reforms are needed.
- thanks for the interview!
- Thanks for the interview.
- thanks for the interview!
- thanks for the interview.
- Thanks for the interview.
I wish my students creative success, "said St. Magulov.
According to the Vice Minister, the Government of Kazakhstan adopted the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
In this regard, the visit of the Attorney General of Malaysia to Kazakhstan is scheduled for May 23-26, "the report said.
we fully support the opinion expressed by the president in the manifesto. we fully share the president 's opinion in the manifesto .
As noted by S. Zhumangarin, on November 13, 2015, inspections were completed in relation to the companies "kmg of products," "helios" and "sinoil," the amount of fines amounted to 220 million tenge.
Therefore, we are implementing an industrialization program, we need a new investment policy, "said N. Nazarbayev.
A joint project with the European Union "Development of the regions of Kazakhstan" provides legislative, strategic and institutional, advisory support on the implementation of government policy in the development of the region.
During the meeting, the Secretary of State noted that Poland is an important partner for Kazakhstan in the European Union, central and eastern Europe, and thanked the country's leadership for supporting Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization and participation in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
During this week, it is necessary to prepare changes to the budget so that finances enter the country's economy faster, "the Prime Minister said.
It reflects the concrete steps of the economic and social basis of Kazakhstan for the coming time, "said Mr. Holmakhmatov.
The forum participants were informed in detail about Kazakhstan's steps in the work of regional security organizations: anshk, shu and ekyu.
In 2015 Kazakhstan took 41st place among 189 countries of the world.
I am sure that the new leadership will competently lead the national bank.
The Ministry of Health and Social Development and the Government as a whole are in the process of establishing a compulsory social health insurance fund. now the ministry of health and social development and the government work to create a fund of compulsory social health insurance .
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to strengthen the work of party control over the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program and the effective spending of budget funds.
the main socio-economic indicators of the city, the development of a network of roads in the Almaty region, an innovative cluster and a special economic zone "park of innovative technologies" under the "Nұrly zhol" program.
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Singapore Centre are improving the public service. joint work with the organisation for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) , the singapore center of the undp on improving the civil service is being conducted .
this project has been discussed several times.
The forum was attended by representatives of central state bodies, the prosecutor's office of Almaty, Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan regions.
In the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, we hold the first republican congress of charitable organizations, philanthropists and donors on the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan. in the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan we are holding the i republican congress of charitable organizations , philanthropists and donors on the eve of the day of the first president of the republic of kazakhstan .
I urge domestic business to spend its funds on the development of our country. i 'd like to encourage the domestic business to spend their funds for the development of their country .
I instruct the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to proceed to its implementation. " Nazarbayev.
We believe that this decision will be known by the summer, "he said.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the energy sector.
the construction of infrastructure facilities of the Taraz chemical park is carried out in two stages.
Of course, expo 2017 is one of the important events for the Republic of Kazakhstan. without a doubt , expo-2017 is a landmark event kazakhstan .
I care for two grandchildren.
this work should be carried out within the framework of the development of public-private partnerships.
- President of Water Resources Marketing LLP, Chairman of East Kazakhstan Regional Branch of Forest Anarbek;
however, this work is very slow. but this work is too slow .
we considered the development of sustainable cities, diversification of the economy, appropriate management.
It should be noted that on December 2, 2015 Aktobe hosted the ceremony of signing memoranda of cooperation between JSC "National Company" Astana Expo-2017 "and four regions of the western region.
this will allow us to reach new heights and serve as a prerequisite for new achievements in economic development, "said the head of the region.
During the event, the President of Kazakhstan noted the contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev to the cause of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
for the first time, an armored wheeled vehicle of domestic production "arlan" and an armored car "barys" will be presented.
these are our future champions, future champions of the Olympic Games, world champions. they are our future champions , future champions of the olympic games , world champions .
In addition, in Tashkent, n.rmekbayev held talks with the Secretary of the Security Council under the President of the country v. Mahmudov, a member of the State Council of the PRC - the Minister of Public Security of China go shenkun.
The competition was attended by delegations of Belgium, Oar, Czech Republic, Angola, Latvia, Zimbabwe, India, the Republic of Korea, Japan, Paraguay, Argentina, Egypt, Turkmenistan and other countries.
Wolves Alexey Yuryevich appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Greek Republic;
One of the important events for Kazakhstan is participation in the second meeting of international participants of expo-2017.
this is expo-2017, transport, logistics, a number of sectors of the economy.
Based on what is happening in the world and Kazakhstan, the meeting needs experienced economists, specialists who know international relations, in a market economy. taking into account the situation that is happening in the world , including in kazakhstan , the majilis needs specialists in the market economy and in international relations .
in May of this year, on our initiative of the UN General Assembly, religion and peace. "
secondly, the formation of regional drivers of economic growth is important.
the best product of production purpose: Bemer Reinforcement LLP (andreas kefer), Glass-service LLP (arcade of scars), Brissol LLP (Sergey bok)
The second five-year plan of the state program of industrial and innovative development (2015-2019) provides for the implementation of 24 projects worth 1191.1 billion tenge, he said.
It is pleasant that such a large-scale forum involves powerful international concerns, for example, airbus, talgo. i am glad that such a representative forum is attended by powerful international concerns , for example , airbus , talgo .
- Sergey Fedorovich, how did you come to instrument business?
this memorandum opens an understanding of economic relations between our countries, contributes to the deepening of trade and economic relations and integration. this memorandum opens a new page in relations between the economies , it creates an opportunity for deepening economic and trade relations , the integration of our economies .
Therefore, I believe that our meeting will be the basis for the joint implementation of large projects, "he said.
I believe in my people.
of which 83.6 billion tenge, as well as 36.8 billion tenge - money from the republican budget for infrastructure and 46.5 billion tenge - their own funds, for the most part, will go to the dry port.
this is an additional incentive to raise teachers' wages, "he said.
To achieve its goals, Baiterek Holding, together with mckinsey & company experts, has created more than 100 business initiatives.
these are members of the CIS countries, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, India, Korea, Mongolia.
The implemented projects attracted investments in the amount of 18.2 billion tenge.
the parties discussed the initiative of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to create in the capital of the UN international center for "green technologies and an invested project" on the basis of the expo 2017 infrastructure.
important cooperation in the economic, transport, transit and border spheres.
the global economic crisis is part of the world's socio-political situation. the global economic crisis continues to cause social and political problems in the world .
my task is to protect the rights of children in our country, "said Zagipa balieva.
Over a quarter of a century, the country has formed a successful economy, a stable political and social system.
the whole world is amazed by German, Japanese, Polish "economic miracles," said a foreign expert.
this project is very large-scale, important for our state. this project is very large , it is important for our country and the world .
Since 1995, our country has created conditions for 9,000 international observers.
for example, the construction of the 1st stage of the infrastructure of the special economic zone was completed.
in the nomination "the best enterprise for the production of consumer goods" (vko), light LLP (Pavlodar region), Kudaibergen LLP (yuko).
new laws had been adopted.
- Thanks for the interview.
The research direction is of great importance, including interaction with world experts on political, economic, international relations and security issues, the head of state said.
Recall that on behalf of the head of state, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed a grant agreement on the project "Improving energy efficiency in Kazakhstan."
they adapted their people and business to Kazakhstan. they oriented their business and people on kazakhstan .
Here in 2015, the first 60 fellows who entered the categories of "civil servants," "scientific and pedagogical workers," "editorial staff of the" garden "and" graduates of universities, "the press service of the" Center for International Programs "began training.
of these, 84 deputies according to the party list of the Nur Otan party; according to the party list of the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Way" - 7 deputies; according to the party list of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan - 7 deputies; 9 deputies elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
D. Kuanyshev informed the Speaker of the Knesset about the current political and socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the country's approaches and priorities to international cooperation and dialogue to ensure security and sustainable development in central Asia, the reforms provided for in the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," the values ​ ​ of the nationwide patriotic idea "eternal country" and other initiatives of Kazakhstan.
secondly, economic growth is slowing down in all economies of the world.
the forthcoming conference determined Kazakhstan's question in that direction and the stability of political and socio-economic development was impossible without inter-ethnic, interfaith and intercultural harmony. the forthcoming conference will reflect a position of kazakhstan on this matter which is that the stable political and social and economic development is impossible without interethnic , interreligious and cross-cultural harmony .
During the meeting with the Ambassador of the Republic of Benin A. Ochofa, the Secretary of State noted that Kazakhstan is closely monitoring political and economic processes in Africa and is interested in expanding ties with the countries of the continent.
Usen abdykadyrovich was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Singapore.
According to the director of the theater, 5-6 events in the "capital opera" are planned within the framework of the Year of Italy in Kazakhstan.
this year we will buy more, "he said."
Kazakh-young state. kazakhstan - young country .
it is aligned with political, economic and logistical factors.
Thus, the manana restaurant opened in the metropolis.
this step is necessary for the effective implementation of five institutional reforms, the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
young citizens of Kazakhstan!
We are very pleased that Switzerland will participate in this important event. we are pleased switzerland has joined this important event .
by tradition, the grand opening of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev began with a welcoming speech.
In accordance with article 40 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, subparagraph 3) of article 44, I decide:	 in accordance with article 40 , paragraph 3 , article 44 of the constitution of the republic of kazakhstan i decree :
I received a huge impression from the report of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
It is worth noting that the release of the first domestic products of navigation equipment and a defferential post for emergency calls in the event of a transport accident will be released in 2016.
The meeting was attended by experts of the World Bank, employees of the ministries of national economy, energy, justice, akimats of the capital and cities of Almaty, Aktobe, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, Kostanay regions.
I believe that information on investment projects was very useful for the development of business ties between our countries. i believe that the information about the investment projects is very useful for the further development of business relations between two countries .
the number of detected administrative offenses increased by 30 thousand (3.3%, 883 from 947 to 913 151).
The five institutional reforms we have announced are a comprehensive development plan in the new economic environment. five institutional reforms - a comprehensive plan for development in a new economic reality .
the world is changing, in the future the world is radically changing, so the fate of Kazakhstan depends on how correctly audited, as well as the entire world community: what are our achievements, why we were in the conclusion of the program "Kazakhstan 2030," "Kazakhstan-2050," "bright road," "g-global," society of universal labor.
The main goal of the project is to show Austria the rich culture of our country.
As a citizen of Kazakhstan, I am sure that at the first stage the economic situation of the country will improve. as any citizen of kazakhstan , i especially hope that all political and economic changes in our country will be improved .
Recall that last fall in the capital began the implementation of the partnership program recommended by expo-2017.
eu - The Central Asian security dialogue has become an effective platform for discussing and addressing policy and security issues of mutual concern.
supporting entrepreneurial activity, developing small and medium-sized enterprises, creating conditions for a favorable investment climate, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
We positively assess the joint United Nations program for regional development of the Semipalatinsk region, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
This is the third time we have participated in this festival. we participate in this festival for the third time .
According to the minister, this project is of strategic importance.
the reports of the president and the population have been fully implemented. we have implemented everything , put by the president and the people .
Ottaviani specializes in growing and processing vegetables.
because in the public life of our country this is their first work.
Of the 57 countries, 37 are Asian, 20 are non-regional.	37 countries of them are asian countries , 20 - non-regional countries .	1,48
During the meeting, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Tourism Union of Astana EXPO-2017 and the Astrakhan Tourism League.
we want domestic enterprises to participate in construction work. we try to attract our domestic manufacturers in the construction .
Note that this was the first visit of the Scandinavian countries to Kazakhstan.
this will reduce the attractiveness of the project. " yakupbaeva.
At the same time, the main problem of the world is the de-dollarization of the world economy, "the expert noted.
The Vice Minister noted that "taking into account the potential of increasing bilateral cooperation, today's meeting of the subcommittee will make a significant contribution to strengthening cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union."
The business trip was organized by the Chamber of Commerce of Kazakhstan together with kaznex invest JSC, the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Russia, the consulate in Omsk and the government of Omsk region.
we have a clear strategy for the development of the economy. we have a clear strategy for further development of sez .
we have ratified all relevant international treaties and agreements.
in this situation, we are taking serious steps, turning the process of concluding bilateral treaties, this process significantly simplifies cooperation with our other countries, "he said.
Today, these technologies are used not only in Kazakhstan, but also in southern, North America, Asia and Europe, "said the academician.
it is very important that this center was built through a public-private partnership, and I support this direction.
we must work for the people, "he said."
This is a good result for the region, "he said.
today I set the task of creating a new social policy.
The purpose of fulfilling the tasks set by the President of Kazakhstan is aimed at the Kazakh youth, "he said.
- Deputy Director of Yesil-su kendyukh;
new innovations and assistance to Kazakhstan's business in increasing its efficiency, "the Canadian diplomat said.
additional ios and android are available.
Our main goal is to educate teachers of a new format.
this will be the first project of the technological platform for the population in Kazakhstan. this will be one of the first projects in kazakhstan , the first technology platform for miners .
supporting this initiative, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that all authorities are united, "he said.
630 thousand tenge were allocated for each candidate for deputies of the Majilis, of which 139 thousand tenge were allocated for speeches on the election program on television channels. and to participate in the radio program - 82 thousand tenge, to publish two articles in the publishing house - 178 thousand tenge, 33 thousand tenge for renting an institution for meetings with voters, for publishing campaign materials in print - 66 thousand tenge - 132 thousand tenge, "he added.
I completed an internship in Kazakhstan because I knew the Kazakh language. i trained in kazakhstan , because i know kazakh language well .
It is pleasant that Almaty created all conditions for investors. it is really good that almaty has all the conditions for investors .
in recent years, 4.5 thousand metropolitan housing have received social programs.
- Secretary of the "aul" party;
All their advice is important and useful for us, "said asset Abdoualiyev.
The video was shot on the TV channel "24.kz"
at the meeting, the chairman of the board of directors of jp morgan & co, jacob frenkel, the chief executive officer of citigroup in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, jim koluz, the chairman of the board of managers of erg Alexander mashkevich and others will speak.
for example, the concept of "unity and unity."
now we have signed a strategic program "green bridge."
- founder of Archar Stone LLP of Nurbaizhantileus;
here I refer to the new education programme, the SME support programme, transport and logistics policies, the expansion of PPPs and others. i mean a new education program for sme support program policy , development of transport and logistics , expansion of ppp and others .
our committee is ready to make an opinion on this project, "said the head of the committee on international affairs, defense and security of Kazakhstan maulen ashimbayev.
The project was implemented as part of the modernization and reconstruction program of Petrokazakhstan Oil Products LLP (Shymkent Mns).
The forum "Country of the Great Steppe" is aimed at cooperation between customers and suppliers and the development of business and the national economy.
The theme of the 2016 forum is a new economic reality: diversification, innovation and the economics of knowledge.
China is the main trading partner for Central Asian countries.
The agreement was established during the Central Asian investment forum organized by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the financial times.
this project will meet the needs. this project will provide qualitative automotive gasoline .
the crisis in the world economy certainly affects the countries of the world. indeed , the global crisis in the world economy affects all countries without exception .
there will be a new platform for further partnership, "said the ambassador.
- share your plans?
to systematically carry out this work, it is necessary to conduct an anti-corruption examination by law, "he said.
Thus, "public-private partnership has strengthened the interaction of the state and business."
According to the head of the fund, from Asian countries you can see an increase in the impact of responsibility on business in environmental, social and corporate issues.
he is a very worthy candidate, "said a public figure.
in addition, the partners of the exhibition EXPO-2017 - white "Kazpost," white "Kazakhstan temir zholy," white "air astana" will be involved in the exhibition tickets.
Our project "Dialogue of a culture of cooperation" will contribute to the establishment of friendly relations between our countries.
Recall that from June 2 to 5 of this year in the capital will be held the IV international exhibition of weapons and military equipment.
The meeting participants noted the high level of cooperation in this area and expressed support for the further development of the Kazakhstan training center and the Stepnoy Eagle peacekeeping exercise, which has been held annually since 2003 with the participation of the Kazakh armed forces and units of the nation countries.
Kazakhstan has signed more than 400 multilateral and 700 bilateral agreements.
now Kazakhstan is beginning to implement the concept of a green economy.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the March holiday and wished every family happiness, success and prosperity.
During this time, 41 accounts were opened in banks, to which 51 billion tenge was invested, "the minister said.
The meeting will be attended by candidates from the Nur Otan Party, the People's Communist Party of Kazakhstan, the Ak Jol Democratic Party, the Unity Political Party, the Aul People's Democratic Party, and the national Social Democratic Party.
I entrust the Government with developing new concepts for the use of the national fund in the new global context. i instruct the government to develop a new concept to use the finances of the national fund in the new global reality .
This year we went to our Kazakh brothers, to the capital.
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan twice paid an official visit to China.
According to the Vice Minister, 6.8 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of the third stage, including 3.9 billion tenge from the republican budget, 2.9 billion tenge from local budgets.
only the first, appellate and cassation instances remain.
- In June 2015, an agreement was signed between the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Russian Federation on the movement of low-enriched uranium and equipment through the territory of Russia to the bank of the tube and back;
this is really very important, because a lot of work has been implemented.
financial sources amount to 79.6 billion tenge of budget funds, own funds of enterprises - 180.9 billion tenge, bank loans - 31.6 billion tenge, other loans - 156.1 billion tenge, of which 152.2 billion tenge - foreign investments.
Turkey is of great importance for Kazakhstan, we will never abandon the policy of cooperation, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
- First Deputy Chairman of the aul party Tolymbek gabdalishimov;
we cooperate with German, Italian, Finnish, Chinese and Russian companies.
Once again, continuity was demonstrated, aimed at overcoming the crisis. "
we must attract uncompetitive companies at the expense of the state, "the head of state said.
He noted that a new program "digital Kazakhstan-2020" is currently being developed.
According to the minister, this will primarily happen due to the development of India, Iran, Africa and Asian countries.
Following the meeting of the Security Council, the President of Kazakhstan gave a number of instructions to the government and interested state bodies, control over the implementation of which is entrusted to the apparatus of the Security Council.
- The modern stage of development of all spheres of life of Kazakhstan - economic, social, political, cultural activity is characterized by active activity to transform the institutional environment.
On this day, an eternal bright star appeared in the blue sky - the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Events dedicated to this holiday will be held in the squares before the monuments "қaza eli" and "baiterek," on the city square, in the parks "student" and "earthen."
our cooperation with Kazakh colleagues has been going on for decades. our cooperation with kazakhstan colleagues lasts for decades .
If last year 40 billion tenge of the republican budget was not used, then this year this figure is several times lower, 15-20 billion tenge.
Last year, 4 enterprises were commissioned, 126 new jobs were created.
Tokayev presented his best wishes to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Also during the business visit, the delegation visited the Kaztehmash plant, Sultan Confectionery JSC, Peterfeld-agro LLP and the regional Development Fund for servicing entrepreneurs.
Kazakhstan is a large agrarian state. kazakhstan is a large agricultural country .
Within the framework of the IX Astana Economic Forum, the Singapore Minister met with the Commissioner of the Expo 2017 exhibition, rapil zhoshybayev.
leadership is entrusted to the National Security Committee.
for example, in Australia, Japan - 6 months, in Ireland, Belgium - 1 year.
the food and textile industries also have the potential for this, "he said.
our homeland is alone.
there are specific examples of one window.
I congratulate all women of Kazakhstan on their 20th anniversary. i congratulate all business women of kazakhstan on 20th anniversary .
structurally and meaningfully, this document has ideological-political, economic significance. this document has the great ideological and political , economic value .
- vice-chairman of party, president of the newspaper "aza un і".
I instruct the Government to develop a new privatization programme, including all State-owned organizations.
As the Head of Government of Kazakhstan noted, the EAEU countries and the program "one belt - one land" receive practical application and develop potential.
the parties concluded agreements on the further development of inter-parliamentary, trade, economic and investment cooperation. the parties agreed to intensify inter-parliamentary , trade-economic and investment cooperation .
80% of the funds are allocated by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, the remaining 20% are financed by steward engineers and the Investment Fund of Kazakhstan as white investors.
firstly, I want to say that I support the statement proposed by Nursultan Nazarbayev. first of all , i 'd like to welcome the statement made by nursultan nazarbayev .
In this regard, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that the state corporation "government for citizens" is a unique project.
Thank you and the team of your specialists for cooperation, technical support and offers, "said K. Maxim.
the future of Kazakhstan is a new generation.
teams are represented by regional commands "south," "east," "west" and airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Abibullayev Altai Ibrahimovic is the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Polish Republic;
Last year, the bus lane project was implemented, which was introduced in six sections of the streets. last year bus lane project was implemented on the six streets .
As the head of state noted, "Kazakhstan is a big family, our common home."
thus, through the "one window" the state service of coca-cola was provided.
the total area is 50 thousand square meters, "said the head of the city.
Over the past two decades, Kazakhstan has achieved good social and economic success.
at the conference, experts discussed transport and transit projects on the Eurasian continent, topical geopolitical aspects of international communication, cooperation and interconnection of countries, the implementation of joint infrastructure projects, the main directions of the state program within the framework of the "bright path."
In Kazakhstan, we decided to include components of the green economy and green technologies in this initiative, "he said.
We import $1.4 billion worth of medicines. we import drugs totaling $ 1.4 billion .
Political Unity Party - 0.29%
the parties discussed issues of bilateral trade, giving Kazakhstan the status of a country with a market economy, Kazakhstan's obligations under the WTO, mutual import of goods, as well as recent trends in the field of investment, cooperation in the energy and transport sectors.
The Akzhol Democratic Party of Kazakhstan took 7th place and the People's Communist Party of Kazakhstan took 7th place.
Nursultan Nazarbayev's manifesto very accurately describes the picture of world security. nursultan nazarbayev clearly outlined global security frames in manifesto .
our multinational is made artificially. our multi-ethnicity was created artificially .
The revenue plan for two tax calculations amounted to 330 billion tenge: corporate income tax and expert customs duty, 230 65 billion tenge was exceeded, he said.
thus, the first is the name of the party "nur otan," the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Way" -3, the People's Democratic Patriotic Party "aul" -6, Kazakhstan
our country is interested in the development of Egyptian friendly and trusting relations. our country is interested in the development of friendly and trustful relations with egypt .
According to him, this indicator was achieved due to the development of Kazakhstan's infrastructure.
During the event, the head of state handed over a "golden colleague" to a mother of many children. Tokpanova.
the rate is stressful, but the planned schedule is being met, "the head of state said.
In 2016, the ministry's efforts in the field of industrial support will be based on three areas: the implementation of major new projects (including the modernization of existing ones); direct support to existing enterprises in a global crisis; creating systemic conditions for increasing competition in the domestic industry.
This year it is planned to implement 11 projects worth 25 billion tenge, where more than 600 workplaces will be created. This year we are planning to launch 11 projects for 25 billion tenge, with the creation of about 600 jobs, "bozumbayev said.
including cyclists "astana pro team" - vincenzo nibali and fabio aru, "said the chairman of the national company.
these proposals will be considered by the recommended by expo-2017 commission.
dentist, dermatologist, urologist, mammologist, gynecologist, neuropathologist, cardiologist, therapist, otolaryngologist, pediatrician, oculist.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the historical friendly relations between the two countries.
The organizers of the business mission together with the Chamber of Commerce of Kazakhstan were the white embassy of Kazakhstan "kaznex invest," the consulate of Kazakhstan in Omsk and the government of the Omsk region.
All the issues raised in the message are aimed at the development of the country's economy, ensuring stability and peace, "he said.
we need a new investment policy.
we're very close friends. we are great friends .
this is a difficult question. this is not a simple matter .
gold quality this year. " 3.
According to him, the priority for the Government of Kazakhstan is the social sphere.
housing construction bank, kazexportguarant, assets and projects of the Kazakhstan investment fund, as well as the national agency for technological development.	these are  housing construction savings bank , " " kazexportgarant , " " investment fund of kazakhstan , " and also " national agency for technological development , " said k. bishimbayev .
We are confident that expo-2017 will be very interesting for all participants, "he said.
The leadership of Kazakhstan has timely studied the experience of international economic development.
this partnership is associated with the programs of the Chinese country "one belt - one way" and the Kazakh "bright way."
we have a single economic space. we have a single economic space .
we are ready to provide a full range of investment support and full cooperation, "said the vice minister.
- Agreement on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the field of plant protection and quarantine;
we stimulate the development of tourism in Almaty.
According to Shaldarov, from January 1, 2016, amendments and additions were made to the law "On Enforcement Proceedings and the Status of Bailiffs," article 138 of the law defines the competencies of private bailiffs and state bailiffs, and establishes categories of executive documents accepted by them for execution.
these are 3 projects implemented on the business roadmap. this is the third project implemented under the business road map .
This seminar is very important for Kazakhstan.
this is one of the best indicators in the world.
This was the result of the wise policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said d'ice.
4320 - "nұrly zhol" of new jobs created under the program "Industrial and Innovative Development," about 600 places, 210 places "Agribusiness Roadmap 2020," about 16 thousand "within the framework of state industry programs, more than 4 thousand "Employment Roadmap 2020, and 22,152 places will be created as part of the program" Regional Development. "
According to the president, this issue is very important for each country.
10 refers to the interpretation of individual electoral legislation; 5 - on the intention to run for parliament, support a certain candidate or inclusion in party lists; 1 - the requirement to withdraw the registration of a candidate for deputy from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan; 6 - providing information on election commissions and candidates for deputies; 1 - providing information on violations during the election campaign; 3 - not related to the electoral process (on solving various social and everyday issues).
this is the Nұrly zhol program for infrastructure development, the second stage of the industrialization program and the agricultural development program.
revenues of the city budget amounted to 49 billion 359 488 tenge.
party lists of the party nur Otan, kdp "ak jol," hdp "aul," khp and ndp are registered.
Recall that within the framework of the entrepreneurship support map "kazakhstan de li optoelectronics" in Almaty
many of our compatriots will come to Kazakhstan in March. "
we discussed two main issues.
we must take systemic steps to improve our policy, "the head of state said.
this year the Olympic Games will be held in Rio. this year , the olympic games will be held in rio de janeiro .
our project has entered the industrialization map.
The Austrian organization of manufacturers is interested in developing support for cooperation with Kazakhstan, the report said.
the manat of free turnover assists the national economy, small and medium-sized businesses.
"We are interested in coordinating and increasing the development of Viking and nomad express projects.
the formation of successful cooperation between our countries was also noted by the representative of the information and analytical center mobadelate novin l.t.d ramin gasempoor (Iran).
the first is value growth, the second is portfolio restructuring and the third is corporate governance.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Mayor's Office of Astana, the White House "Astana Expo-2017."
The celebration of Family Day and the holding of the nationwide contest "Mereili Recourse" became traditional, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
of these funds, 53 billion tenge will be used to continue the construction of rental housing through the Baiterek holding network, 149 billion tenge - for the construction of credit housing, including 22 billion tenge - for lending to depositors through local executive bodies and a housing construction savings bank.
2015 was very active for the activities of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan. the last year kazakhstan conducted an active foreign policy .
sea transportation would take twice as long, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
we should not "drag" uncompetitive companies at the expense of the state.
I wish you prosperity, confident dynamic development and success! " - said strong-willed hamzaevich.
our lives are changing, which is proven by concrete examples. our life will change , and this can be confirmed by specific examples .
at the same time, it should be noted that the whole world knows about our country and its initiatives, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan has always been a bridge between civilizations and cultures of the world. kazakhstan has always been a bridge between civilizations and cultures of the world .
The amount of the premium is 18.6 million tenge.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation in the trade, economic, oil and gas, agricultural, transport and space spheres were discussed.
A new draft of the State Program for the Development of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2019 has also been developed.
work should continue in that direction.
thirdly, our cosmonaut made a trip to space for a month of aymbets, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
a new corps of parliamentarians offers new ideas and methods that will adapt to the situation in the world and central Asia, "he said.
The company of the United Arab Emirates "Panjagolden oasis general trading hp" intends to invest $3 million in a nickel plant with a capacity of 123 thousand tons of nickel oxide per year and 125 thousand tons of cobalt oxide, "the akim of the region said.
we fully welcome this initiative, "said the president of Senegal.
this is the instructions of the president. " screen.
printed in the new postal republican state enterprise "Banknote Factory of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
the state, citizen and employer are responsible for this, "said Mr. Sharipova.
all athletes are well prepared, "said the state coach.
Council members thanked for the meeting and expressed their views on topical political and economic issues on the global agenda.
Kazakhstan claims a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018.
for my part, I will inform our investors as much as possible and show all projects.
President of the International Federation of World Wrestling thanked for support in organization of tournament in the capital.
this code fully meets the standards of eidu, "said e.bakhmuta.
in particular, frozen fish production - 31751.0 thousand tenge, frozen fish meat production - 109350.0 thousand tenge and agricultural machinery and equipment rental services - 396.0 thousand tenge and frozen fish storage services - 550.0 thousand tenge.
as part of the new investment policy, a council will be created in the capital to attract investment for the implementation of city projects.
Until December 31, in a number of information databases of world publishers for all users through the library site "euromonitor international" (international research company publishing economic research and analytical reports from 210 countries worldwide) "taylor & francis" (publishes more than 1800 new academic books and 1000 journals annually) , "wiley-blackwell" (includes more than 1,500 scientific journals and books, 750 scientific literature) , ebsco publishing (the largest aggregator of scientific resources of the world's leading publishers represents a complete set of more than 3,000 journals).
currently registered party lists "nur otan," "white road," "village," "khkp."
these costs are agreed with the republican budget commission, "he said.
According to him, institutional reform, created on the initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev, is very important for the long-term development of Kazakhstan.
The volume of foreign trade turnover in January-November 2015 amounted to 340.6 million tenge, including exports - 105.9 million dollars (84.2%), imports - 234.7 million dollars (53.6%).
The purpose of this project is to improve the water supply and land reclamation condition of irrigated land with a total area of ​ ​ 113 thousand hectares in the Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda regions with the reconstruction of outdated irrigation and drainage systems of republican property in the basins of Syrdarya, Talas, Shuma, silt transboundary rivers.
The Eurasian Economic Union is exclusively an economic project, the head of state said.
funding covers all regions of the republic.
First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mukhtar Beskenovich tleuber;
In my opinion, the project "one belt - one way" is one of the largest projects of the XXI century.
we await the application of this decision.
I am sure that the planned official visit of the Israeli Prime Minister to the capital will give impetus to the deepening of bilateral relations, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the head of the enterprise, the project was implemented as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The participants exchanged views on key issues related to the European Union, Central Asia and Afghanistan.
In 2013, expenditures of the national budget on the social sphere amounted to 2,418, 8 billion tenge, in 2014 - 2,612,8 billion tenge, in 2015 - 2,849,1 billion tenge. so , in 2013 , the national budget allocated 2418 , 8 billion tenge to the social sector , in 2014 - 2 612.8 billion tenge , in 2015 - 2 849 100 000 000 tenge .
According to B.Sultanov, 607 billion tenge was legalized as of the coming date, of which the property amount is 475 billion tenge (abroad - 1 billion tenge), 150 billion tenge by opening 233 bank accounts.
Within the framework of the meeting of the Presidents of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, an agreement was signed between the heads of Avtovaz aak (Russia) and Bipek Auto - Asia Auto (Kazakhstan) groups of companies.
According to the Department of State Revenue in the Mangistau Region, from December 2015, new legislative rules came into force that simplify the legalization procedure and provide entities with additional guarantees for the protection of the rights and illegal actions of other state bodies.
I use all my experience and knowledge in this area, "said a.myrsakhmetov.
As the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, "the position of all religions is one: assassination, assistance to loved ones, building a family."
Kazakhstan is the second major country in which we work. kazakhstan is the second largest country we operate in .
Kazakhstan is an active member of the world community, an authoritative international entity.
Today, Eurasia is the main geopolitical and economic factor in world politics.
This year, the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Tadeh-2016" will be held from June 2 to 5.
K. Jürgel Kazakhstan is one of the most important partners of Poland in central Asia.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on the prospects of political, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between China and Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Zharmenov noted that it is used in Canada, Bolivia, Italy, Brazil, China, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan.
This year Kazakhstan celebrates the 25th anniversary of independence.
Hungary is our important trade and economic partner.
they offered us a working order, he said. "
- Natalia, thanks for the interview.
The leadership of the Republican Center for the Development of Health and Health Care, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Atameken," the branch trade union of employees of Kazakhstan health care, the National Chamber of Health Care, the association of manufacturers of pharmaceutical and medical products "Қazaқstan Pharmaceutical Medicine," the Kazakh association of private medical structures, representatives of the public association "Protection of the Rights of Medical Workers," as well as professional associations (79 people), the main freelders took part in the work.
- Chairman of the Board of Directors of Capital Bank;
One of the important issues of supporting domestic business is the implementation by the Ministry of concrete measures within the development of local content: within the framework of the held visiting meetings-forums in the regions 1.4 memoranda worth 928 trillion tenge were concluded, more than 1.3 thousand agreements totaling 26 trillion tenge were signed.
we know that ahco will be located at the EXPO-2017 site in the capital. we know that the aifc will be located at the site of expo-2017 in astana .
all new State and government programmes should be considered by a consultative body headed by the Prime Minister.
in the annals of our independence, a project of the capital is painted in gold letters. the annals of our independence has such a project as astana .
industrialization of Kazakhstan is the construction of such enterprises, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
the beam road is the answer to the tests.
Also today, a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council will be held in the capital.
we understand that this project is large-scale and complex. we understand that this project is a large and complex case .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, the management of the national agency for export and investment "Kaznakhinvest," representatives of the diplomatic corps, the international business association, the business environment of Kazakhstan, as well as honorary consuls of our country took part in the event.
Kazakhstani manufacturer of railway transport - Lokomotiv Zavod LLP, Electric Locomotive Plant LLP, Tulpar-Talgo LLP, Vostochmash Zavod LLP, Kazakhstan Car Building Company, Aktoboic Rail Beam Plant, Capital Diesel Service LLP and other enterprises.
In particular, at the meeting in a unilateral format, the heads of delegations considered the issue of amending the unified budget of the CIS bodies for 2016, said Chairman of the Executive Committee - CIS Executive Secretary Sergey Lebedev during the meeting in an expanded composition.
an agreement was reached with the Chinese company beijing constructionand engineering company and the Kazakh company Garnd Stroy Capital LLP.
our homeland is alone, destiny is alone! "- says in the text of the appeal.
in my opinion, the great silk road and one belt - one way "are our common history, development and prosperity - our common hopes.
more than half of the employed - 51.6 (4.4 million people) - men, 48.4% (4.2 million people) - women.
first of all, due to changes: yourself and the company.
from November to March of the current year - by trillion tenge. from march to november this year we have moved to one trillion tenge .
- Chairman of the Astana city branch of the party "aul" meirambai orals;
According to the head of the department, according to the updated scenario for oil and metals, as well as to stimulate economic activity in 2016, wool growth will be 0.5%.
Prospects of cooperation within the framework of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 were also considered.
exro-2017 - the anniversary of the capital, "books about the history and life of the capital of Kazakhstan, as well as information about the international specialized exhibition" Astana Expo-2017. "
During the meeting, it is planned to discuss bilateral cooperation, as well as issues on the international agenda.
for example, in Kazakhstan it was decided to reduce state budget expenditures. for example , i admired that kazakhstan decided to reduce the budget expenditures .
Exchange of information is very important for us. the exchange of information is very important for us .
this indicates the authority of Nursultan Nazarbayev at the world level.
The President of Kazakhstan arrived in Tashkent.
the share of imports of livestock products has decreased. "
In terms of implementation, the project company will save about 140 MW for electricity consumption, that is, the volume of savings will be about 2.9 million tenge per year, since, according to the energy service contract, the esco will bear all the costs, compensation as a result of energy saving will be carried out over the next 5 years. in the implementation , the project will allow the company to save about 140 mw of electric power consumption , or about 2.9 million tenge per year , because according to the energy service contract all costs are taken by the esco , and reimbursement will be implemented over the next 5 years as a result of energy savings .
Since January 1, 2016, the national company Kazakhstan Space Visit (national operator), which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Investment and Development, reports that space surveys taken from the space remote sensing system of the Republic of Kazakhstan (RK) are provided for free transfer to state bodies and organizations (state bodies).
As a result of the measures taken, as well as the strict determination of the timing and schedule of payment of wage arrears, the rights of more than 41 thousand employees were protected, as a result of which 4.9 billion tenge were paid.
The bklk project is very important for us.
To date, this work has been completed.
love, child, nature, water, family...
looking forward to arriving in Almaty next year, "he said.
This is "the world. XXI century. "
I am responsible for the work of parliamentary contacts and can say that good economic and political relations have been established between our countries. i am responsible for parliamentary relations and have to say that our two countries established good economic and political relations .
The event was attended by the head of the presidential administration n.nigmatulin, assistant to the president - secretary of the security council n.rmekbayev.
According to the head of the department, SMEs in 2015 produced products worth 15,858,4 billion tenge, which is 1.8% more than in 2014 (14,609,7 billion tenge).
in my opinion, this is an important factor in strengthening ties between our countries.
The address of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan will become a strategically important document. the address of the president of kazakhstan is a strategically important document .
The main topic of the discussion of the expanded pedagogical council was the results of the work of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015 and the tasks of the department for the coming year, indicators of the domestic education system at the international level, as well as issues of preschool, secondary, technical, higher education and science, protection of children's rights and youth policy.
- Thanks for the warm words.
the parties discussed the prospects for the development of mutually beneficial trade, economic and investment cooperation.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev defined specific criteria for anti-crisis stability and structural modernization of the national economy of Kazakhstan. head of state nursultan nazarbayev identified clear measures of the anti-crisis stabilization and modernization of the national economy of kazakhstan .
As we see now, the role of regional powers, players of other levels that affect regional politics, regional and international relations is growing in world politics, "he said.
he noted that the priority of the economy of Kazakhstan is the commodity economy.
Participation in Expo 2017: Belgium, Benin, Kamara, Congo, Hungary, Monaco, Pakistan, Kingdom of Tonga, Vanuatu, Vietnam.
teachers, educators, doctors, social workers, cultural and sports workers.
Today, the development of women's business is developing on the basis of the state programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020" and the Development Fund, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
- Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Islamic Republic of Iran on the transfer of convicted persons;
The list of subsoil sites for solid minerals (with the exception of common minerals and coal and uranium) put up for auction was approved by order of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan dated 26.06.2015  No. 724.
this is the Nұr Otan party, the people's democratic party "aul," the democratic party of Kazakhstan "white road," the democratic party of "liberated" Kazakhstan, the national social democratic party, "said the chairman of the CEC.
a memorandum was signed between the companies rifa holding group and Eurasian Agricultural Holding on the creation of a meat cluster in the East Kazakhstan region.
we know the important role that energy plays in the development process. we recognize the important role that energy plays in the development process .
an important goal is the development of a stable value. the key objective - development of human resources .
the development of small and medium-sized businesses is a very pressing issue. the development of small and medium business is very relevant process .
in this regard, Kazakhstan was not suspended.
there must be new people, operational solutions, new approaches and new ways to renew the country's economy. definitely we need new people , new solutions , approaches , and the new ways to restore the country 's economy .
More than 60 years ago, the outstanding scientists of Alberta enstein and Bertrand Russell asked the question: "cruel, evil and unable to escape the question: should we destroy man or mankind abandon war?" - a manifesto.
According to the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, this alliance provides new opportunities for trade and investment for all participating countries.
During the period of complication of the world economy, parliament and the government worked in all areas of the socio-economic sphere, "the head of state said.
The Izhevsk region, Blagodatnoye Agro LLP of the Burabai region, Kazger Bird LLP of the workers' area, capital project ltd LLP of the Tselinograd region were also invited.
for example, through the white line of Kazagrokarzhi, in 2013 more than 700 heads of dairy cattle of the Holstein-Frisian breed were purchased, through Kazagro Kazakhstan farms and agricultural formations more than 300 units of equipment and equipment for poultry farming, vegetable growing, feed farming and greenhouse farming.
every investor is important to us. every investor is important to us .
committee members also discussed the draft law "On the ratification of the Protocol on the Extension of the Validity Period and Amendments to the Agreement on the Creation of a Unified System of Technical Cover for Railways of the Member States of the Collective Security Treaty Organization of April 28, 2003."
The Kazakh delegation includes more than a hundred Kazakhstani companies, including more than 40 partner companies of Baiterek Holding, 4 "national champions" (caspian beverage holding, alageum electric, eurasian food corporation, zigermunayservis) more than 40 companies operating in manufacturing, food, engineering, petrochemical, agro-industrial and other sectors of the economy.
bogatyr coal is one of the world's largest open-pit coal production enterprises at two bogatyr and northern deposits.
It is worth noting that the sports event was organized by the Mayor's Office of Astana together with the National Olympic Sports Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Cycling Federation of Kazakhstan, the Samruk-Kazyna Trust Social Projects Development Fund and the Capital Presidential Club.
Kazakhstan has the potential to diversify the economy, "said Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
compared to other countries, Kazakhstan has long-term development priorities, the expert said.
Kazakhstan last year became a full-fledged member of the WTO, and we are interested in mutually beneficial projects, "he said.
project participants are the renault-nissan alliance from the Bipek Auto - Asia Auto and Avtovaz group of companies.
During the meeting, the visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Belgrade and the participation of the Prime Minister of Serbia Alexander Vucic in the work of aef ix in the capital, the participation of Serbia in expo 2017 were discussed.
200 soldiers of the armed forces and 20 spouses of military attachés were invited to the event, including a tour of the museum, a festive concert, as well as a display of a collection of clothes and jewelry from the hands of famous Kazakh women designers.
this is our great value and our great pride! ".
for me today it was unexpected to join the political council of the Nur Otan party.
For Kazakhstan, this is an undeniable opportunity for the development of our industry, "he said.
these are Russia, Ukraine, Kura, Baa, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Italy, Spain, Finland, Denmark, Sweden, France, Korea, Belarus, etc.
this indicates a good investment climate in the country, the minister said.
Secretary of State during the Washington Nuclear Security Summit of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev. XXI century, "designed to mobilize the efforts of the international community and rid the world of the threat of war.
we agreed to develop the economy, investment, energy, environmental protection, transport, new technologies and bilateral trade, "he said.
these are tasks that will be completed, "he said.
valeriu mica - security specialists (Romania)
n.nazarbayev called the world "peace. XXI century. "
Minister of Trade and Industry of Singapore, Minister of Transport of Latvia, Minister of Production of Sri Lanka, Vice President of Iran, President of Ecdb.
this agreement is aimed at strengthening economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Saudi Arabia. this agreement is aimed at strengthening of economic cooperation between kazakhstan and saudi arabia .
our country is tolerant of all religions and gives traditions to all people. our country is tolerant to all religions and respects all the traditions and customs of all peoples .
this is housing construction. "
I am in favor of countries such as Kazakhstan playing an important role in the UN to assist other countries, "he said.
our team can consist of 30-40 athletes. we expect that our team will be composed of 30-40 athletes .
to date, the partnership sign is presented to the hotel "dastan hotel aktobe."
the best serving companies: Astana LLP bi holding, Almaty Istkomtrans LLC, Inta LLP in Mangistau region.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the talks discussed issues of bilateral and multilateral formats of cooperation between the two countries, topical international issues, including the development of cooperation in the format of steam, ecu, eu - central asia.
38 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the commissioning of a rehabilitation center for 30 beds covered by the necessary equipment.
I am sure that the world will soon learn about new Kazakh scientists, doctors, engineers, musicians and athletes "- Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the end of the meeting, the head of Kazakhstan Engineering invited Jordanian colleagues to take part in the IV international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2016."
in the future, samsung electronics central eurasia and Astana intend to hold a number of events during the promotion of the international specialized exhibition expo 2017.
Currently, specialists of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan analyzed prices for more than 3 thousand medicines and medical products, held negotiations with pharmaceutical manufacturers on cheapening these prices. at the moment the specialists of the health ministry have analyzed more than 3 thousands prices for medicines and medical devices taking into account the reference pricing .
airport management group company, which manages the network of state airports of the white structure "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy."
Over the past 6 years, 28 sectors of the economy have appeared, 890 new enterprises have been launched, the head of state said.
As the work on monitoring the emission of harmful substances from the capital's energy protein activity showed, the volume of emissions of harmful substances for 9 months of 2015 compared to the same period of 2014 amounted to 22% (from 34.7 thousand tons per year to 27.2 thousand tons), including nitrogen oxide by 19% (1.7 thousand tons per year) and sulphur dioxide by 21% (3.9 thousand tons per year).
we are uniting the university system at the international level, "the minister said.
2856.8 million tenge is allocated from the national budget to implement the program for 2016.
as part of the inspection, the ships Kazakhstan, Ural, saryarka and the hydrographic ship Ural of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan went to sea on command.
The Committee considered a draft law "On the ratification of the Protocol Amending and Supplementing the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation of 20 January 1995 on the Conditions for the Operation and Lease of the Sary-Chagan Test Site and Ensuring the Life of the City of Priozersk."
we have similar natural and climatic conditions, we have experience, technologies for creating such enterprises, "said the Ambassador of the Republic of Estonia.
we are volunteers. "
Thus, as of February 25, 2016, the Central Election Commission accredited 155 observers from missions of two international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis), one international organization (organization of Islamic cooperation) and a foreign state.
I am sure that cooperation between our countries will develop in all areas, "the expert said.
Now we are at a fairly high level in the international ranking, "said the deputy.
the association plays an important role in promoting and creating between Kazakhstan and the countries of the European Union and in the field of business and public.
Certification of compliance with the international standard en 15838 is the most prestigious and professional system for confirming the quality of services to customers in contact centers of any organization, regardless of the direction of the organization and the volume of the communication center.
we do not hide these facts from society.
This year is marked by the kha year, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
By the decree of the Governor's Office of the capital, the socio-entrepreneurial national corporation "astana" was recognized as a legal entity to support activities.
in the Kostanay region - 78.23%, in the Kyzylorda region - 77.53%, in the Mangistau region - 69.06%, in the South Kazakhstan region - 80.92%, in the Pavlodar region - 68.76%, in the North Kazakhstan region - 76.41%, in the East Kazakhstan region - 77.13%, in the city of Astana - 69.83%, in the city of Almaty - 29.12% votes, "he said.
Recall that the capital is hosting the international forum "Kumys-2015."
The head of state noted that we are facing new tasks.
Within the framework of this issue, a sharp and constructive exchange of views on improving the activities of the CIS took place, and the meeting adopted a decision of the protocol instructing plenipotentiary representatives of the CIS countries, the commission on economic issues and the CIS executive committee to unilaterally warn all comments, comments and statements made during the meeting, - said the Lebedev, and also added that this issue will be considered on September 16 this year at the meeting of the CIS Heads of State in Bishkek.
how do you assess the position of our country?
I am sure that the new agreement will be an important impetus for our relations, "said the head of state.
Recall, on November 30, 2016, the President of Kazakhstan sent a message to the people "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
and our new working partnership.
Kazakhstan is taking new steps in economic relations. kazakhstan is taking independent steps in the economic terms , in social issues .
Kazakhstan pays special attention to the development of cooperation with Ireland and the expansion of the bilateral legal framework.
We offer the global brand zoje in Kazakhstan.
According to him, since September 1, 2014 6403 applications totaling 81 billion 534 million tenge have been registered in Astana.
all investment projects are implemented directly in the regions.
It should be noted that rental housing for its purchase under our mechanism covers a period of up to 15 years, the amount of monthly payment per 1 square meter amounted to about 1612 tenge in the cities of the capital and Almaty, with growth in Karaganda cities of about 1414 tenge. it should be noted that the housing in lease with purchase is provided for up to 15 years , the monthly lease payment for 1 square meter of housing on the realized turnover on astana and almaty suburb is about 1612 tenge , in ust kamenogorsk and karaganda - about 1414 tenge .
According to him, this indicator is higher than in the most developed countries. "
The cost of living on average per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption of basic food, increased by 1.6% in December 2015 compared to the previous month, and by 5.6% in December 2014.
we plan to approve the Digital Kazakhstan 2020 program by the end of this year and in 2017 we will launch the five-year program.
in the regions, a new economic reality began to be felt. new economic reality has come to the regions .
Thus, he ensured the growth of Kazakhstan's economy in 2015 by 40%, "the head of state said.
this is an eee product, "said A.Nichkasov.
With regard to the volume of information on the activities of the political parties participating in the elections, 22 per cent of the total number of materials on the activities of the political parties participating in the elections in the republican press is covered by the Noutan party.
you are the future of the country. you are the future of our country .
eutelsat 9b "eutelsat communications" is the property of the French satellite operator.
the chairman has two alternates. there will be two vice-chairmen .
as part of the implementation of this project, at the suggestion of Astana LrT, he signed an order on the creation of a technical committee for standardization of "its intelligent transport systems," which includes mm "passenger transportation and road management of the city of Astana," Transport Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, RGP "Kazakhstan Standardization and Certification" Smeu-capital LLP, " "research and development solution" of Technodata LLP, New Projects Scientific and Technical Center LLP.
Within the framework of this platform, work will be carried out in the format of three working groups: economy and regional communications, "environmental and climate change" and "security," which included representatives of foreign ministries, relevant state bodies and analytical structures of the participating states, "the statement said.
In addition, issues of development and maintenance of the unified CIS system, interaction of engineering troops of the armed forces of the CIS member states, military education, as well as approval of cooperation plans for 2016 were discussed on the agenda.
In his speech, the Minister recalled that the head of state set a goal for health workers to increase life expectancy in Kazakhstan to 73 years by 2020.
Since 2012, Kazakhstan has been engaged in a national dialogue on water policy with a platform for the management, processing and implementation of the integration of water resources with the participation of the private sector, civil society and public authorities, with financial support for edu and edu.
10 investment projects with the creation in 2016 of 594 jobs worth 11.6 billion tenge, including: a house-building plant with a capacity of 50 thousand square meters per year according to the German technology of the company of the house-building plant "weckenmann"; "plansrl" too "asbi sat group" expansion of the production of reinforced concrete products according to Italian technology; "production and industrial complex LLP"; It is planned to launch a small-tonnage oil refinery Kazinruss-trading LLP.
Chairmen of organizations that actively develop corporate governance in Kazakhstan are the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the cash desk, samruk-kazyna uak, baiterek ak, atameken, companies in the field of public and private property, representatives of international organizations.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, head of the "capital" hko, kairat kelimbetov, politician kzi erlan karin, Minister of Economy and Finance of the Yeei policy of timur suleimen, Secretary of the Security Council nurlan ermekbayev will take part from Kazakhstan.
infrastructure of Almaty interests us. the infrastructure of almaty is impressive .
after the presidential election, only a couple and the world community recognized the new head of state.
this is similar to the affordable housing 2020 system.
also in 8 rural settlements "Kaztransgazimak" (the village of Bogoslovka, Mughalzhar district, the village of Aytekebi district), the supplier plans to implement 11 projects for the construction of intra-village gas pipelines, as well as automated gas distribution stations in the cities of Aktobe, forward, kandyagash.
More than 60 years ago, famous scientists published a manifesto. Einstein and B. Russell, who said: "Will the human generation disappear or humanity abandon war?" - asked an important question.
At the Ministry of Trade and Industry of Singapore, responsible for international exhibitions, the expo 2017 exhibition was presented.
According to him, in 2015, 116 thousand people used invest.gov.kz national investment website, since 2010 it included 670 thousand people.
"The best industrial project, the best innovative project."
today we are really talking about global. today , we are talking about the global .
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation and Lithuania's participation in expo 2017 were discussed.
In January-December 2015, 448.2 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the economy of Pavlodar region, the akim said.
Kazakhstan has maintained economic and social stability despite the adverse impact on foreign markets.
we participate in the implementation of projects in the field of industrialization and investment in the framework of Kazakh-Chinese cooperation. we are involved in projects in the framework of the kazakh-chinese cooperation in the field of industrialization and investment .
This is the first visit to the national museum, "said M.Piotrov.
we will evaluate and choose investment companies.
Note that today in the world one of the most important documents is "peace. XXI century. "
- What are your plans for the coming year?
All conditions for creating a business have been created.
- this is a normal economic situation.
I want to thank President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev for the dialogue with Iran. i want to express special thanks to president nursultan nazarbayev for support of a dialogue with iran .
I'm glad to get an apartment. i am happy that i got an apartment .
Last year, large-scale work began.
In addition, the new itp participants presented their projects on the creation of it-technologies to the Vice Minister: blog-platform yourvision LLP, personal cash register LLC, digibased LLC and others.
The decision was approved by the Office of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. the decision was made and approved by the office of the prime minister .
we are cooperating with China.
in turn, s. said noted that Indonesia has great potential in the field of hydro-, solar, biomass and geothermal energy, and the Government of Indonesia intends to increase the total energy generation of renewable energy sources to 25% by 2025.
24kz information support provided.
The event was attended by the head of the presidential administration n.nigmatulin, assistant to the president - secretary of the security council n.rmekbaev.
trade and economic cooperation is an important part of our relations. trade and economic cooperation is an important component of our relationship .
it meets the standards of eidu, "he said.
the Kazakh satellite kazeosat-2 was created by the British company "sstl," the general contractor of which is the French company "ads."
we are creating an economic space with the best international practices.
we have already held a similar action in some cities, but today's event has a fairly wide range, 114 branches of population service centers took part in it, we handed over 284 documents in maternity hospitals throughout Kazakhstan, "said Asemgul baltasheva, Director General of Hkko RMK.
the president focused on the social sphere. the president made a great emphasis on the social sphere .
The Finance and Budget Committee was appointed by the main committee on the bill "On Ratification of the Protocol on Amendments to the Treaty on the Creation of the Crisis Fund of the Eurasian Economic Community of June 9, 2009 and the Protocol on Amendments to the Agreement on the Management of Funds of the Crisis Fund of the Eurasian Economic Community of June 9, 2009."
a year ago, a gift to the national museum. "
the initiator of the project is Alatau-Kordai LLP.
the prospects of Central Asia and Kazakhstan, political reforms called growth drivers (the Eurasian economic union and the new silk road).
new deputies will come, new laws will be adopted.
today a quarter of the world's capital is the digital "economy," green technologies are accelerating.
The President of Kazakhstan plans to visit the kingdom in the fall. the president of kazakhstan is going to visit the kingdom this autumn .
on the instructions of the head of state, we keep this issue under control, "said Kozhamzharov.
the parties discussed the prospects for the economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2016, economic policy reforms.
Since April 11, 2016, the state corporation, created with the aim of ensuring citizens' access to all public services at the level of the best global similar comfort, has been functioning as a single public service provider.
we can solve economic issues, competition, trade equality, and so on.
I think this is an effective option, "he said.
cooperation is carried out in the manufacturing industry, construction, transport and communications, agriculture, other municipal, social and personal services and other sectors of the economy.
six political parties will take part in them: the democratic party "nur otan," "ak jol," the communist party of the people of Kazakhstan, the national social democratic party, the party "aul" and "unity."
this is the daily work of railway workers. this daily work is invisible , but very important .
there are several important programs that bring our countries closer together. there are some important programs that close our countries .
In their speech, the Yamasaki Yasukuni are interested in the construction of the Aktobe rail and beam plant, an important project for the company and the successful functioning of the primetals technologies plant.
the economy of our Kazakhstan needs changes.
it's very expensive. this is greatly important .
According to the organizers, the jury will evaluate the performances of the participants in the nominations: "choreography, vocal performance," "instrumental performance," "intercontinental performance of the song", "decorative and applied creativity," "fine art."
all licenses, passes and other documents.
Kazakhstan is Spain's closest partner in central Asia. kazakhstan is the neighbor partner of spain in central asia .
we attached great importance to trade and economic cooperation. we paid attention to trade and economic cooperation .
The New Year is the time of fulfillment of desires. new year is a time when the dreams come true .
In 2015, Kazakhstan took 41st place in the global ranking "doing business" among 189 countries of the world.
All years of independence, we constantly maintained equality of communication, respect for all religious denominations. for all years of independence we always maintained equality of the relations , respect for all religious faiths .
In accordance with the road map to facilitate the passage of goods through the whitewash port, up to 5 hours before the arrival of complex whitewash port shipowners, preliminary information on goods and vehicles is provided by the state revenue authorities.
The Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan registered all candidates for deputies of maslikhat, "he said.
An article by the President of Kazakhstan was published in the daily political newspaper the hill as part of the nuclear security summit.
production facilities of Kaztransoil group of companies are located in Karaganda, Pavlodar, South Kazakhstan, North Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Mangistau, West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Almaty, Aktobe and East Kazakhstan regions of Kazakhstan.
At all preparatory stages, the Islamic bank al hilal, as well as sunberg & company and amanie advisors cis LLC, provided methodological and advisory assistance and contributed to the preparation of the necessary documentation.
our countries are interested in further deepening political dialogue. our countries are ready to deepen the political dialogue at all levels .
According to him, in the city, as part of the program "development of single-industry towns for 2020," today the construction of the engineering infrastructure of the microdistricts "future," "western" and "star" is underway.
As part of this law, from January 1, 2018, it is provided for the introduction of new rules for the provision of services to each family member with incomes below 50% of the subsistence minimum (today - 40%), due to the mandatory participation of able-bodied family members in active employment measures.
It was attended by the first heads of the countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Eurasian region in the economic bloc.
In connection with the early termination of the powers of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state by his decree appointed early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament elected by party lists on March 20, 2016 and early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on March 21, 2016.
the main topics of the forum, discussed in different years: "modern aspects of economic development in the context of globalization," "economic security of Eurasia in the system of global risks," "sustained growth in the post-crisis period," "new decade: complex issues and prospects, global economic transformation "": complex issues and prospects, ensuring balanced economic growth in the g-global format, risk management in the era of changes in the g-global format, "" infrastructure is the driver of sustainable development. "
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, work is underway to develop investment programs for six macro-regions. in accordance with the request of the head of state the work on development of investment programs for six macro-regions is carried out .
According to the Chamber, senators will discuss the report of the Government of Kazakhstan and the Accounts Committee on the republican budget for 2015 and the law "On the ratification of the Concept of double taxation and tax evasion of income and its protocol between the Government of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia."
we conduct field research, visit all regions of Kazakhstan.
new partners, contractors and customers, the press service of the Jewish Cultural Information Agency reports.
for us this is a big victory, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The iteca company, which organizes the exhibition, organizes 23 special exhibitions and conferences in Almaty with the participation of Kazakhstani enterprises and major international brands within the framework of the signed memorandum.
In 2016, in the capital of the country a. At a meeting with the Director General of the Islamic Railway of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mohsen Pur Syad proposed to increase freight traffic between Kazakhstan and Iran to 2.5 million tons.
I will be the guest of honor of expo-2017. i am a guest of honor at the exhibition expo-2017 .
Following the meeting, members of the Federation Council decided to work out these issues in accordance with the relevant working groups and consider this issue at the next meeting of the Soviet committee in June 2016.
The volume of orders is 304.5 million tenge per year.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev often speaks about trilingualism in Kazakhstan in official reports, speeches at a high rostrum.
certain provisions of the business code, the laws "on permits and notifications" and "on the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan" were also amended.
a new effective international security system is needed. we need a new effective system of international security .
Determine specific deadlines, "said Khamzaevich.
Basically, 25 approved projects will be implemented this year in the amount of 100 billion tenge. in particular , we expect that 25 confirmed projects will be introduced this year totaling over 100 billion tenge , which will provide new jobs for 2000 people , " he has commented .
one window for investors "is not just a mechanism, it is a new philosophy.
Today, Transtelecom works together with the national company Astana Expo-2017.
today the Indians are interested in this project. indians are interested in this project .
I think the new parliament, new deputies will take on new initiatives, "he said.
we changed the technology and improved it. we changed the technology , we improved it .
today we celebrate this holiday for the first time. today we celebrate this wonderful holiday .
The event was attended by leading specialists of such well-known oil and gas companies and research institutes as chevron, width, shell, exxonmobil, total, white "mangistauaumunaigas," "zhshs" nii tdb kmg, "white" nipineftegaz, "zhs" kmg.
special attention is paid to the social situation of the state, "he said.
As part of the Agrobusiness 2020 program, in 2015, 3 thousand cattle fattening sites were commissioned at the Nauryz-Sim enterprise.
Within the framework of the third direction, to stimulate the development of competition and private capital, a bill will be developed in March 2016 to bring antimonopoly legislation in line with the standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development with a clear regulation of the status and procedure of the antimonopoly department.	the minister has said that a new comprehensive privatization plan for 2016-2020 will be approved in january 2016 .	1,62
the basis of Kazakhstan's independence is President Nursultan Nazarbayev.	the founder of independent kazakhstan is the first president n.a. nazarbayev .	1,62
this is an important step for the intervention of our business companies, in order to work more, expand the areas of cooperation between the two countries.	this is a very important step for the development of our business companies to communicate , to work harder to find and expand the important areas for cooperation between two countries .	1,62
food belt of the capital. "
During the meeting, also after a seminar-meeting with representatives of territorial election commissions held on January 25, the definition of the main and urgent tasks and areas of activity, the emphasis of organizational work goes directly to the regions.
Participants of the fund are Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Armenia.
in these areas, we must strengthen competition, "he said.
- Secretary of the Central Committee of the Abdrazah Sultans Party;
According to representatives of the movement, Kazakhstan is the most suitable place for holding the anniversary meeting of scientists in 2017, since the Kazakhstani people survived the consequences of nuclear tests, and currently, under the leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the state is recognized as the leading country in nuclear disarmament.
In addition, he touched upon the development of the military-industrial complex, knowledge-intensive industries and technology transfer, called on military attachés and official representatives of defense departments to take part in the IV international exhibition of weapons, military equipment and property "Cadex-2016," which will be held in the capital next summer 2016.
From June 10 to 20 there will be a 50% discount.
development of bilateral relations, improvement of investment climate of the parties, development of economic cooperation.
government state corporation for citizens.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Austrian delegation includes delegations of four large companies, including kapch group, engel holding, avl list and böhringer ingelheim rcv.
S. Abdykarimov informed his interlocutor in detail about the ongoing changes and modernizations of Kazakhstan on the basis of the Nұrly zhol program and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms."
Democratic Party of Kazakhstan "White Way" - 7.18%
thus, the administration is entrusted to the National Security Committee.
this is the task of every person, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Prime Minister K.Masimov, Head of the Presidential Administration n.nigmatulin, Deputy Prime Minister d.nazarbayev. deputy head of the presidential administration b.mailybayev, deputy head of the presidential administration m.beketayev. Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council a.smolin, Assistant to the President a.smailov, Minister for Public Service Affairs T. Donakov, Minister for Investment and Development a. Issekeshev, Minister of National Economy K. Bishimbayev, Minister of Education and Science E. Sagadiev.
Recall that the sum project "# good" started.
The digital dividend of the World Bank consists of 3 components - this is the basis - digital infrastructure; quantitative solution and it adapts to quantitative government, gives dividends, additional jobs and productivity growth as a quantitative civic, digital business and work there.
production facilities of Kaztransoil group of companies are located in Karaganda, Pavlodar, South Kazakhstan, North Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Mangistau, West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Almaty, Aktobe and East Kazakhstan regions of Kazakhstan.
this is also very important.
In 2016, 1 trillion 278.4 billion tenge will be allocated to stimulate the growth of the Kazakh economy without attracting additional funds from the National Fund, "said Dossayev.
agribusiness 2020 "for $400 million.
Taking into account the main theme of the Astana exhibition, K. Trečekas said that the country has approved the "sustainable energy concept of Lithuania until 2050," the purpose of which is to transfer the Lithuanian energy system equipped with an atom and carbon to alternative energy sources.
this is indeed a historic event at a new stage in the development of Kazakhstan. this is a historic event , which is strongly associated with the beginning of a new stage of development of independent kazakhstan .
in this regard, he noted a number of main initiatives of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at restoring confidence in international relations, including "peace. XXI century. "
As part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020," the company received loans in the amount of 165.5 million tenge.
we are working to make it easier for investors to implement the business. we are working on simplification of work for business investors .
In general, 40 countries are interested in cooperation with the EAEU.
The share of industry is 204 billion 19 million tenge, agriculture - 9 billion 31 million tenge, construction industry - 10 billion 303 million tenge.
I think that this program "Nұr zhol" and "Strategy-2050" provide opportunities for companies of three countries - Sweden, Norway, Finland - they will contribute to reforming the infrastructure of Kazakhstan, "the ambassador said.
timely and full repayment of the financial obligation by the borrower is approved by its international rating agencies in the borrower's business strategy: moody's - baa3; fitch - bbb ; s & p- bb.
The project is implemented as part of the state program for industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019.
-Yes, sure.
Deputy Governor of the region at a press conference in the communications center of the region "Information center" East Kazakhstan region "said that the introduction of trilingualism in schools of the region was approved by the order of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan in February 2016.
preparing this exhibition, I contained important values ​ ​ in all countries.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that on November 30, 2015 Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development "and the plan of anti-crisis actions of the government and the national bank for 2016-2018 to ensure economic and social stability (hereinafter - the anti-crisis plan).
Government and business gain appropriate experience in collaborating with each other.
the main countries of origin of migrant workers are China - 13,373 people, Turkey - 4844, Ukraine - 1620, Uzbekistan - 1303, India - 1235.
to appoint horn Igor Ivanovich as chairman of the constitutional council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
In addition, the largest French leroy merlin company, which sells goods for home improvement, plans to open trading floors in Almaty and Almaty regions by the end of 2016.
The project is implemented as part of the state program for industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019.
In addition, at the job fair, the specialists of the employment center on participation in the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" advised citizens about the possibility of retraining and mastering new specialties, talked about the possibility of passing youth practice, employment for social jobs for people from target groups.
much work had been done in that regard. in this regard we have conducted a lot of work .
- Memorandum of understanding between the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran;
In recent years Kazakhstan has done a lot of work.
For example, the Kazakh cultural and economic center, which opened in Berlin in 2014, will present classics of Kazakh literature, the habits of modern Kazakh authors, Kazakh magazines and newspapers, textbooks, dictionaries, teaching aids for teaching the state language, as well as popular electronic products about the press and the country.
As part of the cycle of Kazakh cinema from March 19 to April 30, viewers will be able to see films such as Kazakhfilm. shynarbayev), "kenzhe" and "shal" (ed. Tursynov), "nut village" (ed. nurmukhambetov), "doroga domoy" (ed. Suleimen), short film "Garden" (; k. amirzhanov), as well as "cheap-i-kipchak.
more than half of the employed 52.1% (4.4 million people) - men, 47.9% (4.0mln) - women.
The bilateral meeting of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan with members of the Iranian government was held in the format of intensifying trade, economic, investment, energy and transit transport cooperation.
we, as in Kazakhstan, will adapt to the green economy. as well as kazakhstan , the us holds a lot of work to adapt to " green economy . "
This week we will summarize the results of this event, "he said.
it was attended by companies related to the oil industry "gazprom neft," "lukoil," huawei, indorama, exonmobil, "kazmunaigas," ak, "Kazakh-Chinese pipeline" and others.
Our main goal is the spiritual education of future generations. "
8) planning and development of the country's infrastructure, including attracting borrowed funds and private investment for the development of the country's infrastructure, etc.
photo from the site azh.kz
army games, "tank biathlon," air darts, "Caspian Sea," "otar" at a military base (within the CIS), "commonwealth warrior," "golden shooter," "Cambrian patrol."
Kazakhstan is a multinational state, we celebrate all together. kazakhstan is a multinational state , all the holidays we celebrate together .
One of the main tasks of today is the development of international transit between Kazakhstan, China and European countries. one of our main problems today - is the development of international transit between kazakhstan , china and european countries .
this organization is not political, but economic. this organization is not political , but economic authority .
The construction of a plant for recycling industrial and solid waste will allow to remove final products (heat, electricity and fuel) from MSW, as well as reach the level of 2% of waste to be disposed of.
As for Kazakhstan, we have taken this path.
- Is it easy to do such business in the new economic conditions?
The multinational company huahin cement will be one of the 20 world producers of cement, having allocated 50 billion tenge for the construction of a plant for the production of 1 million tons of cement.
I am sure that we will develop mutual cooperation, "the akim said.
In order to support employment in 2016, the implementation of comprehensive plans to promote regional employment will continue and the consolidated map of the release of workers and newly created jobs will be updated by determining the need for personnel. in order to support employment , implementation of the regional comprehensive plans to promote employment will be continued in 2016 .
there will be new rules of the game, so new development tools are needed, "he said.
globalization of countries is a natural phenomenon and does not go back, "the president said.
- memorandum of mutual cooperation between the railway company "National company" azastan tem_r zhola "and Islamic Republic of Iran;
The head of state correctly defined the priorities of Kazakhstan's development.	the head of state outlined the priorities of kazakhstan 's development .	1,64
this is the formation of a qualified state apparatus, "unity and unity," "the creation of a reporting state."
so, in 2005, Zarema Kaukenovna became the responsible editor of the book on sociology "Textbook of Sociology" for universities, and also became the author of the multi-volume "Anthology of World Sociology" within the framework of the program "Cultural Heritage."
The head of state attaches particular importance to improving the investment climate. the head of state works hard and pays special attention to investment climate .
today, all countries in Asia, Europe and America participate in the non-profit heme project.
including "Western Europe - Western China," center-south, "" center-east, "" center-west, "" capital-Peter and Paul. "
Only in 2015, the construction of a sports and recreation complex in the moyynkum area, gyms, a sports school for the training of Olympic teenager No. 3 in the city of Taraz was commissioned.
the topic of this year's discussion was "new commitments for world peace in the world of risks."
In many ways, the head of government considered the prospects for expanding cooperation in the field of trade, economic, transport and logistics, cultural, humanitarian and investment spheres.
therefore, we need to learn to live at new prices and large volumes of production, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is the first visit of the President of Senegal to our country. this is the first visit of the president of senegal in our country .
today we have prepared a number of projects, these are "care and mercy," "violence," "preservation of family values."
Director of the Eurasian Communication Center Alexey Pilko said this in an interview in 2016, commenting on the words of the head of state N. Nazarbayev about the holding of early elections to the Majilis of the parliament on March 20, strategy2050.kz.
the cost of the project is 950.0 million US dollars, "the speaker said.
During the three-day seminar, new tasks and priorities of the state ethnopolitics at the present stage will be explained, the issues of legislative support for the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan as an institution for strengthening Kazakhstan's unity within the framework of the implementation of the tasks of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" will be considered in detail.
Recall that in order to fulfill the instructions of the Head of State to prevent unemployment in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated November 30, 2015 "Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development," Kazakhstan regularly conducts active measures to preserve jobs and employ citizens.
Dzhuotson noted that the increase in the share of Kazakh products remains a priority area of ​ ​ the company, the volume of which currently amounts to 20 billion dollars.
all conditions for international capital and private business are created.
This is the principle of the unwavering and clear position of our state, "said the academician.
Within the program of support and development of unique business "Business Roadmap 2020" in 2015 allocated 3.8 billion tenge.
The reconstruction project of the irrigation and water intake bone of the Republic of Kazakhstan will provide restoration of irrigation systems in Almaty region by 58 thousand hectares and provides for improvement of the condition of hydromeliorative soils by 92.5 thousand hectares in the areas of praise and balls of yuko.
Special attention was paid to the conduct of operational-tactical and international exercises "interaction," "center," "combat brotherhood," "field eagle" "together with the armed forces of Turkey," "operational-tactical and international exercises" Caban Zholy, "joint exercises with the anti-terrorist units of the Chinese national liberation army.
- paid by the head of "beautiful ay plus" LLP in Astana;
The main thing is that we discussed cooperation with the EU.
this is an example for many countries.
work is ongoing.
- macaques.
During the conversation, the heads of state discussed current issues of bilateral cooperation.
So, in the nomination "the best industrial enterprise" the winners were recognized as the production innovative company "astana yutaria ltd" (capital), LLP "Rauannalko" (Atyrau region), LLP "Zhanarys" (Mangistau region), private enterprise "Sagittarius a.v." (sko).
Thus, in recent years Kazakhstan's infrastructure funds, baiterek venture fund, almex - baiterek fund were launched, which took part in kkm totaling 42 billion tenge. so , for the last two years of work such funds as kazakhstan infrastructure fund , baiterek venture fund , almex - baiterek fund have been created and launched .
The event is attended by about a thousand delegates and authorized representatives from 68 regional branches of the union, heads of Russian regions, representatives of federal legislative and executive bodies, the financial and business environment, civil society institutions, heads of leading industrial corporations, large scientific and educational institutions.
we thank the project team for organizing this visit at the end of the project, "he said.
This strategic document is important for Kazakhstan. this strategic document should be crucial for kazakhstan .
The meeting discussed ways to strengthen political and trade and economic ties between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
We decided with the government not to request additional transfers for the development of the economy. the government has decided that we will not ask for the additional transfers on the development of the economy .
Kazakhstan is a new initiator of the g-global international dialogue aimed at peace and justice of a safe order.
- ilein konkievich, director of the para-women country office in central Asia, representative of para-women in the country;
a participant can qualify for four categories of partnership: "city colleague," "bronze partner," "silver partner" and "golden partner."
The teleconference was organized by the Central Communications Service, the Kazakhstan Company.
The head of state noted that for Kazakhstan "chevron" is an important partner.
- Memorandum of understanding on cooperation in the field of new technologies of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the organization of science and technology of the Islamic Republic of Iran;
the intelsat dla-2 spacecraft was created by space systems loral (ak) by order of the satellite operator intelsats.a (ak), the press service of Kazkosmos reports.
The initiative to adopt a universal declaration was put forward by President Nursultan Nazarbayev during the first nuclear security summit in Washington in April 2010, "the Foreign Minister said.
The economic results of akhko will be reflected in the accelerated growth of GDP to an average of 1% annually due to the influx of foreign direct investment into the Kazakhstan capital market.
The main committee on the draft law "On the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation on the procedure for interaction in the event of accidents during the launch of missiles from the Baikonur cosmodrome of November 18, 1999 to the Committee on Agricultural Issues and Rural Development."
polpharma s.a. During the meeting with the President of the Supervisory Board of the hedgehog Starak, prospects for the development of the pharmaceutical industry of Kazakhstan were considered.
At the same time, the topic chosen as the energy of the future meets the interests of all countries, "the ambassador explained.
project of oil refining complex construction is implemented by karaganda cci LLP.
- How do you assess the foreign policy course of the Kazakh leader?
Now market visitors, as well as self-employed people working near the market, will be able to get detailed information about the Employment Roadmap 2020 program and vacancies, other active measures to ensure employment.
In accordance with articles 12 and 37 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the central election commission established that 451 ballots will be prepared for the election of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Singapore is the 86th country to confirm its participation in EXPO 2017.
The initiative of the head of state regarding the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, which took place on May 6 in New York at the 70th session of Religion for Peace and the topic raised by the head of state at the summit of Islamic cooperation a month ago, is part of a comprehensive event, these are measures to unite the advanced forces of the world, "said E. Ashchikbaev.
Chairman of the Board of JSC "National Company" Astana Expo-2017 "noted that construction work is carried out in accordance with the schedule.
In order to provide concessional lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, voiced in the message of the head of state "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," loans worth more than 5 billion tenge were issued to 9104 people through 7 credit associations, microcredit organizations and the Agricultural Support Fund.
photo from the site bnews.kz
photo from the site edurk.kz
photo from the site vlast.kz
During the discussion, the forum participants noted that the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev. XXI century, "the plan of the nation" 100 concrete steps "to implement five institutional reforms, the organization of a congress of world and traditional religions of the capital, the national idea of ​ ​" eternal country, "as well as the work of Kazakh youth in the process of modernization of the country.
three specialists work here. "
in this regard, a "trade mission" (meeting of sellers and consumers) is held.
on the eve of the holiday, round tables were held on the topic: "one people, one country, one fate," "Kazakhstan is the cradle of friendship of peoples," Khromtau, in the areas ahead there were competitions "peace - a sign of brotherhood," "under one shanyrak."
In this regard, he noted that the academy's record is "currently in the framework of the National Plan" 100 concrete steps "systematic work is being carried out to improve the language qualifications of civil servants and training."
This will allow us to achieve new heights of interaction, as well as create new opportunities for economic growth, "said M. Pshembayev.
this applies to our neighbors, partners, leading economic powers.
the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Belarus. the russian federation , kazakhstan and belarus kicked off .
the mini-center was opened as part of the Balapan state program.
Recall that in the winter universiade, held in 2007 (Italy), 48 states took part, in 2009 - 44 states (China), in 2011 - 52 states, in 2013 - 50 states, in the Italian city of trentino - 41 countries.
Acting General Director of Kazakhoil Aktobe JSC noted that the management of enterprises should not reduce jobs and from January 1, 2017, wages will increase.
The resolution decided to continue consideration of the action plan for the prevention of violent extremism in relevant forums; in June 2016, a review of the global anti-terrorism strategy will begin.
two new projects are planned - Aktobe-Makat and Center-West.
During the meeting, presentations of the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" and the project "Pearl of Kazakhstan - the great steppe shed," which will be better implemented in the cultural sphere in Austria, were organized.
the whole complex of works is automated.
Kazakhstan provides for the creation and development of five tourist clusters: Astana, Almaty, eastern Kazakhstan, southern Kazakhstan and western Kazakhstan.	in kazakhstan it 's planned to create and develop five tourism clusters : astana , almaty , east kazakhstan , south kazakhstan and west kazakhstan .	1,67
we expect that these works will be carried out at the expense of the state, "he said.
photo from the site ortcom.kz
The adoption of this important document demonstrates the international community's support for the initiatives on peace and nuclear disarmament by 2045 announced by the head of State in September this year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that a quarter of a century at the turn of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries was an era of large-scale historical transformations, and 25 years ago it was questioned that Kazakhstan could live as an independent state.
In the evening, a gala concert will be held in the region with the participation of the winners of the Student Spring 2016 contest, which ended the day before.
It is necessary to use all the possibilities of state programs, "the Governor of the region said.
104 million tenge was invested in the industry, state assistance was provided to producers in the form of subsidies 148.2 million tenge.
we will continue the programme of industrial development.
we will also have arbitrators from Korea, Singapore, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Chinese taipei, Malaysia, Thailand, India, "he said.
the work of the Ministry of Investment and Development, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Embassy and the regions has been completely changed.
Also in the first quarter the government considered the budget and additionally allocated 2.7 billion tenge.
construction works are carried out by Stroitel LLP and arc ltd LLC.
thank our leader for his support, "he said.
I am grateful for the invitation and support that we sent to your country, "he said.
the second is construction through a white "baiterek development," said A. Zhumagulov.
Kazakhtelecom, Kazakhstan Railway, Kazatomprom and Samruk-energo offer great opportunities for regional and foreign investors to enter the main sectors of the economy.
Despite the slowdown in the world economy, the state is fulfilling its social task. despite the slowdown in the world economy , the state continues to fulfill its social obligations .
We will do this in 2016-2017, "said N. Malelov.
Most often, citizens receive the services of state bodies such as the Ministry of the Interior (18.9% of calls), the Ministry of Justice (17.7%), the Ministry of Health and Social Development (14.5%), the Ministry of Investment and Development (14.1%) and the Ministry of Education and Science (11.2%).
photo from the site azerros.ru
Today it all depends on the international financial center of the capital, "said the head of state.
this indicates that there is considerable potential for cooperation between our countries.
If we turn to 1991 - it was a decline, the collapse of the Soviet Union, no funding, the state stopped - but with the advent of n.nazarbayev.
It was created within the framework of the state program "Cultural Atamura" by order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev.
"On ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on checkpoints across the state border, signed in Astana on December 25, 2003."
The meeting of the national commission took place after the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev published a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan in a new global environment: growth, reforms, development."
I was at the Expo in Milan - there was a very beautiful exhibition, Senegal will also be at the exhibition in the capital, "said the president of Senegal.
we appreciate the high level of trust and mutual understanding between our states, "said the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
dear graduates, you enter a new world, a world of knowledge. dear graduates , you go out into the new world , the world of knowledge .
Today, there is a difficult economic and political situation in the existing world. nowadays the world faces the complex political and economic situation .
thus, Kazakhstan became the star of central Asia.
Photo from the site koreilbo.com/ru
The social project "Coca-cola Belts" has been implemented in Kazakhstan for the fourth year. social project coca-cola belesteri is being implemented in kazakhstan the fourth time .
According to him, an important part of the message of the head of state is devoted to social industries.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the Netherlands is an important partner of our country.
A. Zhumagaliyev noted that according to the results of complex measures taken within the framework of the transformation program, Kazatomprom reduced the production cost by 16 billion tenge, and the economic value added of the company - by almost 17 billion tenge.
we created a new Kazakhstan - the country of the great steppe.
In conclusion, Secretary of State Abdykalikova congratulated those present on the achievement of three national reports in 2015 in the Human Rights Council and United Nations contractual bodies and wished them new successes in law enforcement.
during the second week, the soldiers worked out practical survival in autonomous conditions of the highlands for 3 days using the skills of passing mountain paths and cold weapons.
- Is it difficult to develop business in new economic conditions?
new people, new idea, new discussion.
During the visit, a meeting is planned with the president and. Karimova.
I want to thank our thousands and multinational people for their joint work, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
In addition, in the field of animal husbandry, under the Sybaga program for the "Development of cattle export potential," 20.7 thousand head of mother stock, 47.7 thousand heads of cattle under the "altyn asyk" program were received, 3894 heads of horses were removed under the "kulan" program from the beginning of the year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in the framework of the "expo-2017" in the coming years there is a lot of work to be done.
Including animal husbandry amounted to 158.7 billion tenge and increased by 4%, agriculture - by 3.1%, amounting to 184.8 billion tenge.
According to the results of 2015, the coverage of cities with drinking water reached 97.2%, rural water supply - 43.1%, "said the acting head of the Department of Energy and Housing and Communal Services of the Alma Kairken region.
peaceful life, interethnic harmony, economic development - takes place thanks to Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the company, as part of the training for public servants, the rules for working with portals-components of the open government (open data https:// data.egov.kz/, open budgets https :/// legalacts.egov.kz/и open budgets https:// budget.egov.kz/) are explained, information placement and monitoring are trained, prescribing the opinion of users.
photo from the site arms-expo.ru
of these, 4 projects worth 8.1 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map: a small-tonnage oil refinery of Kazinruss-trading LLP; housing and construction plant with a capacity of 50 thousand square meters per year; " project to expand production of reinforced concrete products of asbi sat group LLP; complex innovation of fuel oil in the mixture of processing and extraction of diesel fuel and oil waste, as well as external painting of internal cleaning and railway tanks of casoil group 2009 LLP.
this project is being implemented in accordance with the programme to develop the export potential of cattle meat. "
The meeting was chaired by the Investment Ombudsman - Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev.
By the end of the year, the number of works will increase. at the end of the year there is always much work .
In general, our country is ready to cooperate with Senegal in all areas - both in politics and in the economy.
As n.simomura noted, within the framework of the agreement signed in 2015, support of multilateral cooperation and programs, reforms between Kazakhstan and the couple for 2016-2020 will be implemented.
-Yes, sure.
This year, the following nominations were considered: "the best innovative project among schoolchildren," "the best innovative project among students," "the best rationalization proposal."
work is also underway to develop agriculture, small and medium-sized businesses.
and also at. By the beginning of 2018, Vokurka presented opportunities to consider experts and financial resources sufficient to prepare a full-scale legal and regulatory framework, and also proposed to consider modern infrastructure for ahko.
total cost of the project is 3.2 billion tenge.
we have a strong foundation created by the president. "
production of sunflower and rapeseed oil of blic terminal LLP for production of vegetable oil.
this is a very important issue.
photo from the site astana.gov.kz
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Presidium of kulibayev and the Chairman of the Board of a.myrsakhmetov reported to the Head of State on the activities of the National Chamber in 2015, as well as plans for the upcoming period.
raw materials for production will be purchased in Europe, China and Kazakhstan.
To further strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank, on January 21, 2016, during the World Economic Forum in Davos, an agreement was signed between the Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank on the creation and functioning of offices in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Vice Minister said.
"- said the head of the power supply department of the military unit 97617 n senior lieutenant zhakyn zhunus.
It is planned to reconstruct 7 new and 17 stfs worth 7 billion tenge.
The President of Kazakhstan has established friendly relations with all countries. the president of kazakhstan has established friendly relations with all countries .
I am sure that this meeting will give a new impetus to the development of the tourism industry of the two countries, "the akim said.
While in 2011, only 3 private bailiffs worked in the region, in the execution of which there were 30 proceedings, today in the region more than forty private bailiffs serve the population and in their execution there are 45 thousand enforcement proceedings totaling 60 billion tenge, "the speaker said.
One of the financing tools is lending through second-tier banks, using which agricultural producers receive credit funds at a rate of 7.5-8% to the bank's rating.
special attention was paid to cooperation within the framework of the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," which will be held in the capital.
this is 70% of the attracted investments over the years of industrialization, "he explained.
During 23 years of our cooperation, the Buudb has made a significant contribution to transformational changes in our country, contributed to the creation of strategic documents and legislation at the national and regional levels, and strengthened the organizational capacity of state bodies at various levels, the senator noted.
The press conference will be attended by First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan Sagintayev, Minister of National Economy Yerbolat Dossayev, Minister of Finance of Bakhyt Sultanov, Minister of Investment and Development of Aset Issekeshev, Minister of Energy Vladimir schoolboy, Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov.
we have studied the international experience of all European countries, Asian countries and neighbouring countries.
we noticed that the hotels of the zerendi recreation center are crowded.
The construction of this complex began this year.
this is a wonderful project.
This is not the first time I have come to Kazakhstan. i 'm not the first time in kazakhstan .
According to him, ukp will help create business in Kazakhstan "alifar agroimpex."
photo from the site bilimdinews.kz
Your national plan "100 concrete steps: the modern state for all" defined the strategic prospect of development of the people of Kazakhstan as the nations within values of the national patriotic idea "The m g_l_k ate with the uniform future".
"The historical experience of our country, whose land was used as a test site for nuclear weapons, where more than one and a half million citizens and vast territories were exposed to radiation as a result of 500 nuclear tests, has led us to a different understanding of security," the President of Kazakhstan noted.
the remaining 389 apartments for young families will be distributed at the upcoming meeting of the housing commission (the procedure for registering apartments in the housing department is being completed).
however, within the framework of the Nұrly zhol program announced by the head of state, this problem has been completely solved.
Our meeting takes place in the year of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence. our meeting is taking place in the year of the 25th anniversary of independence of kazakhstan .
For information, the national holding Kazagro plans to direct budget credit funds for 60 billion tenge, which are supposed to be allocated in the form of loans between some subsidiaries of the holding and second-tier banks, to conduct the upcoming campaign and in general support of farmers during spring field work in 2016.
a new economic reality this year, "namely, a new economic reality will depend on us and on our choice and activities.
the project does not require funds from the state budget.
I am glad that our country is developing under the chairmanship of politician, statesman Nursultan Nazarbayev. i am very happy that our country goes to develop under the guidance of outstanding politician , statesman nursultan nazarbayev .
it was attended by six countries: Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
here the head of state was informed about the implementation of the program "Development of Regions" and the project for the development of private house-building plants.
We gathered to discuss ways to promote on the Internet the messages of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan in a new global reality: growth, reform, development. "
the amount of copper in the produced ore was 0.95% according to the annual calculation, which exceeded the amount of ore (2015) in the first quarter 0.88% of last year and 0.05% exceeded the planned volume.
books published this year in Russia and the UK, including "Creator: Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The meeting discussed issues of strengthening bilateral cooperation, especially for the development of education and culture.	the meeting discussed social issues relating to the strengthening of bilateral cooperation , the development of education and culture .	1,71
new social policy	new social policy	1,71
I wish every shanyrak happiness, joy and all the best, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
operator - partnership "ordaglassltd."
During the meeting, issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Poland in the field of economy and investment, as well as prospects for inter-parliamentary cooperation were discussed.
The fourth participant of the EAEU is the Russian Federation, the Belarusian Republic, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republic of Armenia.
The project cost is 2 billion 378.7 million tenge, production capacity is 40 tons of products per day.
So, funds are distributed in the republican budget - 6,745 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 3,600 million tenge, holdings - 67,261 million tenge, as well as 2,959 million tenge.
our Kazakhstan is our common home!
The head of state paid special attention to the development of housing construction. the head of state pays special attention to the development of housing construction .
new programs provide for 5 years of general basic training for all doctors, as well as further orientation in internship in the main clinical specialties (therapy, pediatrics, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology) and training in specialized medical specialties, including mandatory residency in pediatrics.
in addition, in the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" 44-45 steps, as well as in the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan dated November 30, 2015 "Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development," the plan of anti-crisis actions of the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the national bank of the republic for 2016-2018 to ensure economic and social stability.
So, only in Almaty 173 were registered, in the capital - 138, in the region - 120, in the Karaganda region - 116. so , only in almaty there are 173 private bailiffs , in astana - 138 , in south kazakhstan region - 120 , karaganda region - 116 .
1300 million tenge was allocated for its implementation, "Omar said.
this is a "production contract company" white, "kazagromarketing" white, "kazagronym" white.
During the meeting with the Vice President of vestas, they discussed issues of cooperation within the framework of EXPO-2017, as well as issues of attracting investments in the development of alternative energy in Kazakhstan.
photo from the site expo2017astana.com
Also, to strengthen the fight against poaching, 6 (six) special mobilization groups were created on the basis of the "okhotzoprom" from among experienced inspectors provided with an off-road vehicle.
Kazakhstan is an independent state headed by the president.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was informed about the implementation of the state program of industrial and innovative development and the work of the Pavlodar special economic zone.
this is our main goal, "he said.
Kazakhstan is interested in investments, and we will continue to carry out investment work.
this work will continue.
Eurasian security is our historical responsibility.
Expo 2017 is a large-scale international project in the history of Kazakhstan's independence. expo-2017 is the largest international large-scale project in the history of independent kazakhstan .
to that end, a new labour code had been adopted.
Kazakhstan is already doing this work.
this is a special year for us. this year is very special for us .
- lima diaz, managing director - official representative of the samruk-kazyna trust social projects development fund;
M. Zakirzadeh said that Tajikistan will be represented at the highest level in the constituent General Assembly of the Islamic Organization for Food Security at the VII ministerial conference scheduled for February 28 next year.
the largest of them are the aluminum of Kazakhstan plant, the first brewery LLP and the Abdi Global Farm pharmaceutical plant.
The President elaborated on the social sphere. the president has made a strong emphasis on the social sphere .
During the meeting, issues of strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and ESCAP were discussed.
the first issue is trade and economic relations. naturally , the first question - is our trade and economic relations .
In the countries of the union, information will be provided on the implementation of the procedure for providing medical assistance to workers in member States and their families in accordance with annex No. 30 of the Reintegration Treaty.
On the German side, the Bundestag deputy, who made a speech, noted the importance of supporting and developing ties with the historical homeland for 800 thousand ethnic Germans.
In accordance with article 12 of the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of September 28, 1995 "On elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan decides:
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan called the German side implemented by the Head of State "Kazakhstan in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development," the National Plan "100 concrete steps in the implementation of five institutional reforms, opening investment opportunities within the framework of the" beam road "and accession to the WTO, the functioning of Eurasia, holding an international specialized exhibition expo 2017.
According to the head of the department, 18.9 billion tenge will be directed to the implementation of the state program for the development of education and science.
Net profit for the first three months of 2016 amounted to 0.9 billion tenge (3 million US dollars) compared to 1.6 billion tenge (9 million US dollars) for the same period of 2015.
these are projects of the Governor's Office of the capital.
The implementation of the stf development program will increase the capacity of milk processing enterprises from 34 to 50% and provide employment for the rural population.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, signed in 1968, did not fulfill its goal, and the global crisis of confidence between the players leads to a weakening of guarantees to prevent the use of nuclear weapons.
implementation of the project will increase the average per capita income of its participants by 2 times; involving about 90% of able-bodied participants in employment measures; Reduction of 31.8 per cent and 2.1 per cent respectively in the number of recipients of targeted social and State benefits under 18 years of age.
On April 4, in Bishkek, within the framework of the c5 + 1 working group, a meeting was held - "economy and regional communications."
It is worth noting that the republican competition of creative projects and research works "Zerde" among students of grades 1-7 has been held since 2005.
firstly, this is the international situation in the world.
thus, the project justified our means. thus , the project justifies our investment .
This year, major investors - aquamarine resort, falcon petroleum companies - were involved in the construction of two five-star hotels.
together with the Spanish company talgo produces a passenger car, the French company "alstom" - an electric locomotive, the American company "generalelectric" - diesel engines.
As you know, in accordance with the decree of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, since 2014 Kazakhstan will send its military observers to the UN missions in Western Sahara and Côte d'Ivoire, who presented themselves as professional and trained officers.
The signing in August 2015 of an agreement between Kazakhstan and Aecha on the placement in our country of a bank of low-enriched uranium (abub), which will make an important contribution to strengthening the security of the global nuclear cycle, is another step in this direction.
Astana expo-2017, national company, Nazarbayev University, as well as the international secretariat g-global successfully contributed to the meetings.
we do not have higher prices for social bread. we are not going to increase the price for the social bread .
this part of the economy is growing.
I am sure that responsible and authoritative work in Kazakhstan will contribute to the development of bilateral cooperation between the two countries, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to the press service of the Senate, the conference will be held within the framework of the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev on countering terrorism, announced at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in September 2015.
our duty is to preserve the security of our country, protect the independence of Kazakhstan, which will be celebrated this year, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Compared to 2014, this figure was 47%.
this will provide a multiplier effect for the development of our economy, create a powerful "social ladder" for Kazakhstanis and increase the well-being of young people, the President of Kazakhstan said.
The event was attended by members of the government, heads of central government bodies and national companies, employees of the Prime Minister's office.
Recall that the capital is hosting the national forum "Corporate Governance: New Approaches to the Investment Attractiveness of Kazakhstan."
this is a big project. it is a big project .
Kazakhstan, like all countries of the world, is in a new economic situation.
-No way.
to avoid such a situation, we have a proposal that only legal entities and individuals who have worked there for at least 5 years can buy the land into private property, "he said.
This was a popular dream during the extraordinary presidential elections held in April 2015 and supported by an absolute majority of Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
The missile and artillery ships Saryarka, Kazakhstan, Ural and the hydrographic boat Ural participate in the implementation of the course mission k-1.
It should be noted that the conference is held with the aim of summarizing the achievements achieved by our country over 25 years of independence: studying the role of the President of Kazakhstan. in the formation and strengthening of the Kazakh state, the development and implementation of the multi-vector policy of the republic, the construction of the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
The event was attended by 50 students who graduated with honors from the Faculty of Law and rectors of the South Kazakhstan Institute of Humanities named after M. Auez.
600 billion tenge will also be used to purchase conditional bonds of second-tier banks and national holdings on a return basis and through a market interest rate to increase the safety and profitability of pension assets.
after that, western Kazakh producers visited the ramstor, magnum and carrefour retail chains.
According to Asset Issekeshev, today's signed agreements providing for attracting investments at the first stage of about $40 million should be regarded as another step towards expanding cooperation with transnational companies.
The draft law "On the Suspension of the Introduction of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 2, 2015" On Amendments and Additions to the Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Some Norms of the Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "was developed pursuant to the presidential decree of May 6, 2016 on the introduction of a moratorium on the application of certain norms of land legislation.
and this year, as part of the "Program for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises engaged in the manufacturing industry," Aruana -2010 received a preferential loan for the purchase of equipment in the amount of 6%.
firstly, this sign is made in Kazakhstan. "
this is a special event for the life of our region. this is a landmark event for our region .
that feeling is always in our hearts. we have this feeling constantly in our hearts .
we build roads, infrastructure, ports.
we represent Kazakhstan under the world brand zoje.
Especially interesting is the international center for the development of investment projects on the infrastructure base "expo-2017" under the patronage of green "technology and vapors in the capital, created on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev," the statement said.
our Kazakhstan is our common home.
Kazakhstan is the largest and most influential state in central Asia. kazakhstan is the biggest and most influential country in central asia .
a green economy. "
we fully support this initiative. we fully support this initiative .
The head of state emphasized the effectiveness of the LCD system, directing this year through the National Managing Holding Baiterek to allocate 149 billion tenge of additional funds for the construction of credit housing to a residential construction savings bank.
The invested investments amounted to 2 billion 155.1 million tenge.
During the visit, the Kazakh diplomat got acquainted with the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, the reforms carried out within the framework of the national plan "100 concrete steps," as well as with the main aspects of the message of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development."
So, funds are distributed in the republican budget - 6,745 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 3,600 million tenge, holdings - 67,261 million tenge, as well as 2,959 million tenge.
in the current world market, we want to continue our trust dialogue on economic cooperation, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
An agreement was signed between Aktobe and Karmakshin district of Kyzylorda region and the Iranian company Turan Category Aria on the construction of a plant for the production of main poultry with a capacity of 1,500 tons per year in the Karmakshin district of Kyzylorda region.
a new economic policy, a new economic situation requires experience other than political representation. the new economic policy , the new economic condition require another experience of the political representation .
Our Kazakhstan will be more dynamic, worthy, more reliable and richer.
previously, the lease period was 10 years, and now, after amending the code, from July 1, 2016 the lease period will be extended to 25 years, "said an expert on agricultural issues.
continue to work with new investors.
Within the implemented program "Nrla zhol" this year through holding 29 thousand jobs are created, more than 10 thousand subjects of small and medium business are supported thanks to what the volume of tax revenues reached 40 billion tenges.
for a state like Kazakhstan, this is a big challenge. for countries such as kazakhstan , this is a big challenge .
photo: bnews.kz/ru
In addition, Samruk-kazyna JSC has experience in the investment projects department, where it will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the people's ipo program, including the successful initial offering of Kaztransoil JSC shares in December 2012.
By a government decree of December 31, 2013, a list of industries, works, professions of workers whose contributors to compulsory professional pension contributions make mandatory professional pension contributions to employees working in harmful (especially harmful) working conditions at their own expense was approved.
this is the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy and the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
today two companies arrived in the capital. today two companies have come to astana .
all conditions have been created for our volunteers.
The head of state noted that "peace. XXI century. "
Our Kazakhstan will be more dynamic, worthy, more reliable and richer.
within the framework of this agreement kaznex invest carries out structuring of projects. under this agreement , kaznex invest will search for worth projects .
The Minister also expressed confidence that young athletes will show good results at the 2017 World Winter Universiade in Alma-Ata and the next adult Olympiads.
One of the largest agreements on the volume of investments is an agreement between a subsidiary of Baiterek Investment Fund of Kazakhstan Holding and the Iranian company Kave Indastri Groups on the construction of a soda ash plant in the Kyzylorda region worth $200 million.
President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev, who recently voiced the idea of ​ ​ developing such cooperation, noted that "peace. XXI century, "he said.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the role and goals of the dental consuls of Kazakhstan, the state and prospects of relations between Kazakhstan and Europe, the latest international initiatives of Kazakhstan, including "peace. XXI century, "and also paid special attention to the foundations of the plan of the nation" 100 concrete steps "of the implementation of five institutional reforms.
Also, in order to prevent an increase in prices for socially significant food products, in 2016-2017, threshold values ​ ​ of retail prices for them will be established, which will be excluded from January 1, 2018, "said E. Dosaev.
In June 2015, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the national company Astna Expo 2017 and Vietnam's leading travel company ak and saigontourist, aimed at strengthening partnerships in attracting Vietnamese tourists with a population of 90 million people to the exhibition in the capital.
27 state grants were provided in the amount of 65 million tenge, and 31 microcredits for 104 million tenge.
100 concrete steps "and the development of export potential in education.
Kazakhstan is a great country.
photo: sia.az
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in the field of non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons were also discussed.
The Eurasian Economic Union is a deep integration project. eurasian economic union - is the most deep integration project .
Thus, as of March 9, 2016, the Central Election Commission accredited 345 observers from missions of three international organizations (ecu/diakb, cis and shu), two international organizations (organization of Islamic cooperation and parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries) and ten foreign states.
Representatives of 19 Dutch companies who arrived in the capital held business talks with the leaders of Kazagro, and also got acquainted with the activities of a number of development institutions in the structure of the Kazakhstan holding.
The seminar was attended by Chairman of the Managing Committee of the Regional Hub for Public Service Alikhan Baimenov, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Academy of Public Service under the President of Kazakhstan, the steam development program, the African Union, 45 ministries of foreign affairs of African countries and relevant directors of the Department of Comprehensive Cooperation.
this work should be carried out. this work must be carried out .
The signing of the new constituent agreement will further develop cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank and fully implement the limited partnership agreement signed in May 2014 to support joint efforts in sustainable development and inclusive growth.
In general, 231 km of national roads, 219 km of regional significance, as well as 32 km through targeted transfers in districts and cities will be repaired by repair work.
Boris Flets - Head of Mission (Slovenian Republic)
42.1 billion tenge invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
photo: ortcom.kz
In accordance with article 314 of the Business Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan of October 29, 2015, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan decides:	 in accordance with athe rticle 314 of the entrepreneurial code of kazakhstan of october 29 , 2015 , the government of the republic of kazakhstan decides :
According to B.Bulegenov, the conference participants discussed not only the reports of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev and the President of Belarus A.Lukashenko, who spoke from the doubles rostrum in September 2015, but also other international initiatives, the statement said.
Kazakhstan should develop economic diversification. kazakhstan should continue to diversify its economy .
to that end, a new labour code had been adopted.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev is in the right direction. president nursultan nazarbayev is on the right track .
photo: 365info.kz
photo: nurotan.kz
Taking this into account, the bill provides for the removal of 34 permits, the transfer of 14 permits to the notification procedure, the abolition of 105 permits in order to optimize, "the acting Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan marat kusainov said.
photo: cis.minsk.by
photo: kazpravda.kz
According to the Minister of Agriculture, in order to implement the 61st step of the national plan "100 concrete steps," the government is working to attract strategic investors to develop meat processing and production.
he noted that "land is our capital, part of the country's economy."
photo: adilet.gov.kz
During the forum on inclusive and sustainable industrial development, experts expressed the opinion that the principles of inclusive and sustainable industrial development will be crucial elements in achieving the goals of the 2030 agenda.
Kazakhstan's path to enhancing its role in international cooperation. the un is a way for kazakhstan to improve country 's role in the international cooperation .
Parliament is a special institution of the state. parliament - a special institute of the state .
this year he presides over the Turkic Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a number of bilateral cooperation issues were also discussed.
photo: www.baiterek.kz
photo: shortandy.gov.kz
During the meeting, issues of ensuring national security were discussed.
employees of akimats and maslikhats - 255 people (3.2%), employees of state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations - 3,653 people (46.3%), employees of commercial structures - 3,384 people (42.9%), representatives of political parties and NGOs - 135 people (1.7%), pensioners - 60 people (0.8%), unemployed - 202 people (2.6%), 5 people (0.1%) did not indicate the place of work, "- said m.sarsarsembaembaem.
- thanks for the interview!
work is underway. now the work is carried out .
He explained that automation work is carried out at the expense of the own funds of water supply enterprises, as well as for the work of the 1st stage of automation in the amount of 1 billion tenge, the report said.
this is a special event for us. for us this is a special event .
The Chairman expressed confidence that the results of half a century of activity and the prospects for achieving the goals of sustainable development until 2030 will be discussed with pleasure at a special session within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum.
- Jan dirk vaibur, senior partner and managing director of the boston consulting group in Moscow;
- Director of Atyrau construction services, Serik Yerubaev LLP;
As part of this order, by order of the Chairman of the Committee on Housing and Public Utilities and Construction, Land Resources, from July 1, 2015, a regulatory framework was created for the implementation of the European competition system to replace outdated construction norms and rules, "the statement said.
We are ready to cooperate and share experience in this area, "he said.
After the expiration of the 5-year lease period, housing can be purchased in an amount equal to the remaining monthly rent payments for the remaining amount.
In modern conditions, the main strategy for the development of the country should be the national plan, which provides for the path of our country's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world, "the minister said.
today we are witnessing the opening of an important Government for Citizens facility.
Recall that Kazger-Poultry LLP is a participant in the state program of industrial-innovative development in 2010-2014 and the "food belt of Astana."
for six previous nominations: "the best volunteer project, author reading," "," "? in d? in the world? " intelligent game, as well as adventure game "quest."
In the 3rd quarter of 2015, the ratio between the maximum and minimum value of the average per capita nominal monetary income of the population by region amounted to 3.5 times (in the 3rd quarter of 2014 - 3.5 times).
It is worth noting that the following products were at the agricultural producers' fair: meat and sausages - 76.8 tons, fish - 1.7 tons, eggs - 265 thousand pieces, dairy and dairy products - 18.2 tons, flour - 64 tons, potatoes - 35.5 tons, lawns - 45.2 tons, corn products - 15.5 tons, sugar-5.3 tons, oil-casting 16.5 tons.
a hypermarket will be built in the area of ​ ​ aport mull.
In addition, the guest focused on the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," which will allow our country to meet the standards of eidu.
The medical facility is a large dialysis centre with 25 units in the country and specializes in providing full nephrological care to patients suffering from renal failure.
According to E. Sadvakasova, in 2010, leading colleges were selected at the first stage to update the implementation of employer requirements in educational programs and to implement the modernization of technical equipment.
we are discussing all this at today's meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
we are actively engaged in the expo program. we are actively engaged in preparation of the program for expo .
Recall that at the 9th step of the national plan "100 specific steps" a legislative fixation on the system of partial training of civil servants is prescribed, qualification should be carried out every three years.
we give priority to cooperation with Central Asian countries. the priority for us is cooperation with central asian countries .
the initiative of the Majilis to hold early elections to the lower house 100 concrete steps. "
The protocol stipulates the conditions for amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation on the lease of a test site from October 18, 1996, the committee on international relations, defense and security said in a statement.
The purpose of the program is to continue the modernization of the Kazakh economy and adapt it to the directions of the global economy, "the head of government said.
The heads of state discussed issues of economic cooperation of the Eurasian Economic Council with third countries. the heads of state discussed the development of economic cooperation of the eurasian economic union with third countries .
we will strengthen this work.
In general, Almaty Governor's Office noted that on the eve of the 2017 Universiade, it is necessary to closely monitor the operation of the airport, railway and bus stations to ensure the safety of passengers arriving in Almaty.
Project implementation period: 2016-2022.
Metro is an important project. the underground is a very important project .
Of these, about $40 million is planned to be attracted to the creation of a fund to support microfinance organizations that will lend to individual entrepreneurs engaged in personal economy through microcredits, "K. Bishimbayev said during an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Figure: sud.gov.kz
The list of participants of 350 scientists and academicians of Kazakhstan, members of national scientific councils, experts of foreign countries, representatives of state bodies, national chambers of entrepreneurs, national companies, heads of Nazarbayev University, organizations of science and higher educational institutions, collective use of national and engineering laboratories in Almaty, scientists and higher educational institutions.
The program was launched and implemented in our leading companies, mainly in six - these are "kazmunaigaz" uk "ak," Kazakhstan temir zoly "ak," kazatomprom "uak," kazpost "white," samruk-energo "white and" kegos "white," he said.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of the Nan Lugar program, named after Senators (Georgia, Democrat) and Richard Lugar (Indiana, Republic), who worked together to implement the 1991 Soviet nuclear threat reduction act. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the nunn-lugar program , named after u.s. senators sam nunn ( d-ga ) and richard lugar ( r-in ) , who worked together to pass the soviet threat reduction act of 1991 .
720 candidates (68.6%) have higher education, 257 (24.5%) have secondary special education and 72 (6.9%) have secondary education.
monthly cash flow to such accounts averaged 148 billion tenge, which once again confirms the correctness of the amendments to the legislation, "- said D. Akyshev.
In 2020, 100% of urban land, 80.2% of rural settlements will be provided with centralized water, and the share of the population producing blue fuel will reach 56.7%.
G. Abdykalikova expressed hope for support for the initiative of the head of state to hold a summit of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on science and technology in Astana in 2017.
In order for the local executive bodies of Almaty and capital regions and cities to be able to issue special securities, on April 7, 2016, the Ministry of National Economy made appropriate changes to the budget code, as well as on April 25 of this year, corresponding changes were made to the government decree of June 15, 2009, "said E. Dosaev.
The participants of the meeting approved the draft decision of the EEC on the development of a plan of activities of the commission on the preparation for the census in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) in 2020.
Since the beginning of the service, the number of crimes committed in public places has increased by 125%, the number of crimes detected on the principle of "zero tolerance" has increased by 94.3%.
peace, which arose at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. XXI century. "
Until 2020, the region has a plan to increase the number of citizens who provided services on the main indicators of tourism development, in particular, on domestic and external tourism by 20%, and on inbound tourism - by 18%.
On January 26, 2016, regional newspapers "and" Kyzylorda news, "as well as the district and city press, published information indicating the location of election commissions, the territory of constituencies and polling stations, their contact phones, addresses and mail.
this is the first direction, "he said.
Currently, on the basis of bilateral agreements, 93 projects included in the industrialization program of the Karaganda region, we have prepared and employed 3,123 specialists for the innovation project of the Karaganda region, the rector said.
Kazakhstan did well in managing economic growth from 2000 to 2013, significantly improved the financial situation of life, reduced the level of poverty, expanded access to education and health care, and was generally satisfied with the state of life of the population, "he said.
Since March 4, voter lists are submitted on the premises of precinct election commissions for consultation, in which each voter can check his/her data before the date of voting and on election day. on march 4 , voters ' lists will be presented for inspection and each voter can verify the data before the election day and on election day .
The participants of the seminar discussed a set of issues on the implementation of the 4th Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" - the institutional direction of "identity and unity," the harmonization of interfaith relations and the prevention of religious extremism.
Agreement on cooperation was signed with "Kazmunaigaz" white, "Kazakhstan temir zholy" white, "kegoc" white, "samruk-energo" white, "kazakhtelecom" white, "kazatomprom" white, "kazakhstan engineering" white and "mountain samruk."
Chairman of the Council of the Kazakhstan International Bureau for the Observance of Human Rights and the Rule of Law Eugene Zhovtis, Executive Director of the Charter for Human Rights fruitful tourmagambets, President of the Fund for the Development of Parliamentarism in Kazakhstan Zauresh Battalova and other civil society activists of the country supported a similar agenda for 2016.
The seminar was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Investment and Development, the Defense Committee, National Security of Kazakhstan. the seminar was attended by representatives of the ministries of foreign affairs , investment and development , defense , the national security committee .
As the head of the department noted, more than 60% of crimes registered in the country are theft, mainly petty and medium-sized crimes, theft of mobile phones, theft of personal belongings and pocket theft in vehicles.
As of January 15, 2016, 270 laboratory-proven cases of influenza and more than 229 cases of ARVI have been registered since the beginning of the epidemiological season (from October 1, 2015).
Initially, mk-ceramics produced products under the trademark and exported 20% of production to Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan, fully covering the country's domestic demand.
the main goals and objectives of the exhibition, reflecting the centuries-old history of the formation of Kazakh statehood in the context of history; The national plan for the political, economic, social development of independent Kazakhstan, the implementation of five institutional reforms - 100 steps, November 30, 2015 Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development. "
In 2015, the Ministry of Health and Social Development carried out work to update the list of technical means of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities.
At the initiative of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2011, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" introduced a norm on the mandatory employment of graduates studying in medical specialties at the expense of the state budget for 3 years.
The exhibition has been held three times since 2010 and has become a platform for fruitful joint work of domestic and foreign military producers aimed at developing the country's military-industrial complex, ensuring and deploying the defense potential of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
the opening of a permanent exposition of the national currency in the capital of Kazakhstan corresponds to the plan "100 concrete steps of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at implementing five institutional reforms," according to one of whose points "turning the capital into a business, cultural and scientific center of Eurasia, attracting researchers, students, entrepreneurs, tourists from all regions."
In May 2016, it is planned to evaluate the materials tested, including through instrumental methods, during the final result, recommendations will be given for their further implementation.
The purpose of the protocol is to extend it in connection with the completion of January 23, 2016, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of the committee, since the flood danger arose, 2,488 heads of cattle and small cattle have been evacuated to a safe place, of which 1,500 heads have been returned to their owners to date.
In addition, as part of the financing of credit partnerships, the corporation has financed 206 applications from agro-industrial complex entities in the amount of 2.8 billion tenge for spring field work since the beginning of the year.
From June 13 to August 12 of this year, 300 public services specialists will master innovative equipment and training methods in three streams, professional services for auditing, correspondence, and public speech in Kazakh.
At the same time, the head of the military court noted that last year work in the republican judicial system was carried out with the implementation of the tasks outlined in the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The head of state answered all questions. the head of state attached the priorities and answered all the questions .
According to the Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kasymov, the current flood situation complicated the life of 43 settlements in four regions of the country, flooded 535 residential buildings, flooded 190 sections of roads 20 km long, and destroyed 2 bridges.
Nursultan Nazarbayev made a positive decision. "
secondly, through the State Corporation "Government for Citizens," formerly the PSC.
We hope that Kazakhstan will enter the 30 leading countries of the world, when the dreams of citizens and citizens participating in the elections coincide with the dreams of the black people!
he even noted that in 1991, when we talked about the development of our national sovereignty, we needed a spiritual, social, methodological center that ensures the unity of such a Kazakhstani society.
To this end, Kazagro held a meeting with representatives of 11 second-level banks, during which issues of financing farms and agro-formations of the republic were discussed using a network of expanded branches of banks.
To support the further development of the industry, it was instructed to allocate 360 billion tenge through the transfer of funds planned for the implementation of the Nұrly zhol program in 2017 for 2016.
work in this area is carried out on the basis of the development of the Almaty 2020 program.
In his speech, B. Nusipov introduced the main goals and plan of the nation with the tasks of "100 concrete steps in the development of five institutional reforms," the new economic policy of "nұrly zhol."
To all paluans from 13 regions of the country the first deputy akim of the region wished good luck and expressed confidence that he will become a strong athlete representing the country at the World Cup.
as a result of the implementation of the state program, all 8 target indicators were met: maternal (1.8 times) and infant (1.8 times) mortality rates decreased, tuberculosis incidence decreased (1.6 times), from the main socially significant diseases: from diseases of the circulatory system (2 times), malignancies (15%), injuries and poisoning (21%).
If a Korean company opens a confectionery company in the lot, then French lactalis and German meggle companies are implementing 9 large projects for processing dairy products in the regions of the country, he said.
awarded the Order of the Patriotic War and the medals "For Courage" and "For the Victory over Germany."
A.Mamin reported to the head of state on the results of the joint-stock company Ktzh Uk for 2015 and plans for the current year, as well as on the progress in the implementation of infrastructure projects of the Nұrly zhol program, which will be carried out by the national company.
The group of the Kazakhstan engineering company is represented this year by 20 enterprises that cut 42 units of military equipment to the participants of the exhibition, as well as 95 units of military and civilian products.
independent Kazakhstan is our big family, our common home. independent kazakhstan - our big family .
The meeting was attended by a business group of Kazakhstan and Iran, as well as 6 trade and economic missions of Egypt, the Arab Republic, the Russian Federation, Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan, "said the chairman of the board of the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan Meirbek Majitas during a briefing in the capital.
According to the executive director of the nurakhanov foundation, in 2015 work was carried out in three main areas - support for scientific and creative youth, implementation of socially oriented projects and charitable events, as well as information and analytical activities.
At the NTO headquarters, representatives of the Kazakh Defense Ministry at a meeting of the Partnership and Collective Security Committee discussed with the delegations of 28 countries of the association the implementation of the goals of the partnership within the framework of the "planning and analysis process" program (Fig.).
Kazakhstan is a young state that was not on the map. kazakhstan - young state .
high development on the construction path of Kazakhstan, high technology, self-sufficiency, liberal society are an integral part of efforts and will portray one of the 30 developed countries.
Recall, on November 30, the President of Kazakhstan voiced the message "Kazakhstan in a new global situation: growth, reform, development."
Since January 1 of this year, employees of the metropolitan police around the clock protect public order and timely stop illegal actions around the entire perimeter of the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017."
Lists of electoral districts indicating the composition and location, boundaries of district election commissions are published in the media, as well as no later than January 30.
On January 22, the CEC of Kazakhstan adopted an appeal to all participants in the electoral process explaining the grounds for including citizens in the voter lists, the procedure for issuing absentee certificates, as well as the procedure for organizing home voting.
Representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Kyrgyz Republic spoke about the possibility of a complete exchange of information after the commissioning of the program "Unified Automated Information System of" Electronic Transport Control "in 2016.
Today, the Eurasian National University is the practical embodiment of the Eurasian idea, as well as the University of the Future, which cooperates with 258 universities in Europe, Asia, America, various research centers, embassies of foreign countries, and international educational foundations.
In accordance with articles 46-2 and 54 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Law Enforcement Agencies" approved: rules for assessing the activities of employees, terms and conditions for the appointment of discharges; a system for assessing the severity of violations and rules of disciplinary liability.
among them are the construction of the Mambetov complex and 600 cattle, the construction of the elevator of Askhat Agro LLP, the establishment of a culture of oilseeds processing of Opium Petro LLP.
According to him, Canada is currently restoring issues of participation in the EXPO in connection with the arrival of a new government and is even considering organizing an EXPO in 2025.
If in 2015 to finance by 5.5 billion tenge, then in 2016 it is planned to invest 6 billion tenge in 6 industrial zones in 5 regions of Kazakhstan, "the Vice Minister said.
The sides discussed the state and prospects of cooperation through RK-eu, including a wide range of issues within the framework of the Agreement on Expanded Partnership and Cooperation, signed on December 21, 2015.
it was noted to the guests that the Kazakh airline four times proved that it is "the best airline in central Asia and India," and that according to the skytrax agency, the rating of 4 stars, as well as air transport world, became the leader of the aviation market in 2015.
Thus, representatives of the district akimat, public and commercial organizations planted 9 thousand trees in March, including 3.5 thousand hardwood trees in the village of Kapek, Turksib region, 2 thousand seedlings on a blue-hilly mountain, 900 oak seedlings and fruit trees in the Almaty Zoo.
In January 2014, Kaztransoil, together with Astana Governor's Office, signed a memorandum on the transfer of a section of the Pavlodar-Shymkent oil pipeline to the densely populated region of Shymkent.
Since 2014, the literary and educational magazine "The Sun" has been regularly published in Kazakh, which contributes to the development of speech and worldview of preschool children every two months.
we monitor and monitor the country's transition to a green economy.
According to 187 applications received, 133 judges received positive recommendations for participation in the competition, announced for the post of judge of the highest instance and chairman of the district court, 27 judges were denied submission.
The bill provides for two main issues: ensuring budget stabilization, violations during changes in the forecast of the country's socio-economic development, anti-crisis measures to implement the main goals of the economy in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, announced at a government meeting on February 10, "said B. Sultanov.
primarily Russia, Iran, Mongolia, India, Pakistan, Central Asian and Caucasian countries.
seven schools, one French, one English and one Spanish schools rated global mba financial times.
Chairman of the Board of the national nuclear company Askar Zhumagaliyev spoke about the work of the kazatomprom as part of the implementation of the business transformation program, presented the first results and a scorecard for 2016.
renewal of nature, renewal of Kazakhstan! "The head of state said.
In his speech, he noted positive changes in the work of the judiciary following the implementation of the reforms introduced in the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation.
Since 2016, at the request of citizens and legal entities, access will be provided to all information of state bodies, except state secrets and other secrets protected by law.
construction of a water purification project with a capacity of 30 thousand cubic meters. m per day will provide the population of Kokshetau with high-quality drinking water and fully provide household needs.
according to preliminary data and thanks to these measures, economic growth in Kazakhstan in 2015 amounted to 1.2%, depending on the increase in agricultural production, the volume of services in the transport sector, including construction, housing construction. thanks to these measures , kazakhstan 's economic growth in 2015 was 1.2 % due to the increase of the output in agriculture , construction , including housing , the volume of services in the transport sector .
This is a necessary and important holiday for our people, "said Metropolitan Alexander.
Domestic products are very important for the development of the country's economy. for development of the economy the domestic production is important .
the relevance of this direction in the foreign policy of Kazakhstan was demonstrated by the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Cuba in April this year.
b. ismuchambets recalled that by 2050 the population of the world will exceed 10 billion people, respectively, the demand for food will increase by 70%.
Issues of bilateral inter-parliamentary cooperation, prospects of political, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries were discussed during the meeting.
A congress of leaders of world and traditional religions will also be held in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
this program was Kazakhstan's response to the new economic situation. this program has become kazakhstan 's response to the new economic reality , due to a slowdown in the global growth and low oil prices .
At the same time, according to the Vice Minister, in 2015 the action was attended by 4,400 people with disabilities, more than 3 thousand graduates of 11 classes, 300 released from prisons, 280 oralmans and 200 orphans and orphans.
On January 30, the party list of the Nұr Otan party, including 127 people, on February 2, the party list of the people's democratic patriotic party "aul" in the amount of 19 people, the party list of the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan in the amount of 22 people and on February 3, "The party list of the democratic party" White Road "in the amount of 35 people was nominated," said L. Suleimenov.
Professor of Economics at Columbia University, author of the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum (IP) during a meeting with Xavier Sala-i-Martin spoke about the implementation of the action plan to improve dynamics in Kazakhstan until 2018.
D.Sarekenov familiarized the interlocutor with the foreign policy of the capital, socio-economic and foreign policy initiatives of the leadership in recent years, presented M. Abdullin a conceptual document, a conceptual document compiled in Malaysian - "Kazakhstan Way - 2050, Way to the Future," "100 concrete steps in the implementation of five institutional reforms."
The competition was attended by military personnel under the contract, winners of the 1st stage of the competition in military units, or 75 military personnel, including 18 women.
Kazakhstan proposes to convene an international conference of the UN at the highest level in 2016, which will be approved by the rules of international law and aimed at restoring confidence between states, the head of state said.
to appoint Bishimbayev Kuandyk Valikhanovich as Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
Bakytzhan sagintayev stressed that it is necessary to take all measures to ensure that the events in Karaganda, Akmola and other areas affected by the flood in March-April 2015 do not happen again.
Since March 4, voter lists are submitted on the premises of precinct election commissions for consultation, each voter can check his/her data before polling day and on election day. on march 4 the voter lists are presented for inspection at the premises of the precinct election commissions , each voter can verify the data .
The draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation on the procedure for interaction in the event of accidents during the launch of missiles from the Baikonur cosmodrome, committed on November 18, 1999, was approved.
the capital opens new directions between Kazakhstan and Iran.
Junior Sergeant Alina Raikova - full-time athlete of the Ao biathlon team, participant in the 2014 Olympic Games in Sochi, champion of the 2015 Winter Universiade, master of sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The work is stable, training seminars are held for members of election commissions, "he said.
after the introduction of the new wage system model, a differentiated increase in the wages of the main employees is expected depending on the qualifications: in the health sector - from 7% to 28%, in education - from 15% to 29%, in other sectors - from 28% to 40%.
A. Zhumagaliyev also noted that the introduction of the situation center will reduce the number of reports developed by subsidiaries by 3 times.
a.gazaliyev noted that over the past five years in Karaganda region more than a thousand people have been trained and employed for facilities 80.
Over the 25 years that Kazakhstan has developed as a sovereign country, it has repeatedly faced the challenges of world crises, and we have been able to adequately confront them all.
It is worth noting that since 2015, the costs of overhaul and average repair of roads of regional, regional significance and streets of rural districts increased by 1 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan is an important market for citigroup.
As Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, "state symbols are an unforgettable basis of our state, our sovereignty.
In addition, in accordance with the regulations of the Senate, according to 20 bills requested by the apparatus of the lower house in connection with the section of the meeting, the general committees were determined by a resolution of the Senate.
It should be noted that the cadet of the 4th course of the flight battalion of the Zhaslan Buckbergen twice ahead of his opponents and in two minutes raised 16 kg of weights 98 times.
According to Berdybek Saparbayev, agreements have been reached to open a feedlot with a capacity of 44 thousand heads and increase the capacity of the existing meat processing plant to 20 thousand tons.
Kazakhstan will attract a billion dollars of investments, "he said.
Over the past five years, agricultural exports have grown 1.3 times and by the end of 2015 reached 1.1 million US dollars, "the minister said.
This project, launched as part of Kazakhstan's innovative development program, is water-regulated, protecting regions with a population of more than 400 thousand people from flood waters.
a plan for a nation of 100 concrete steps, "thus we can increase the authority of the working profession.
at the same time, the financing of investments, by decision of the government and the national bank, was carried out as a priority from the funds of the national fund raised by the holding in 2009.
Given the rapid drop in oil prices and negative trends in world markets, the head of state instructed the government to develop a possible scenario for the development of the Kazakh economy even in the event of a fall in world oil prices by $20 per barrel.	given the rapid decline in the oil prices and volatility in the global markets , the president instructed the government of kazakhstan to develop a possible scenario for the development of kazakhstan 's economy under different scenarios of the global oil prices up to 20 dollars per barrel ,  b.sagintayev has said .
firstly, the state corporation "Government for Citizens" will be created.
In this regard, during 2016, based on the experience of Australia and Brazil, special attention will be paid to the development of agriculture through the green baskets of the World Trade Organization.
in this regard, the program of industrial and innovative development is very important.
According to the regional department of energy and housing and communal services, more than 5 thousand economic entities took part in the subbotnik, more than a thousand units of equipment and vehicles were involved, the report said.
In the first years of independence, a negative trend was revealed in the country in the main epidemiological indicators of tuberculosis with a maximum indicator in 2002 (incidence rate per 100 thousand population - 165.1, mortality from diseases - 24.2).
the meeting considered the draft law "On the ratification of the 2005 Protocol to the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms Located on the Continental Shelf."
- I think that not only "nұrly," but also the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" was a response to the current economic situation, which affects the whole civilization along with our country.
the decline in production in the mining industry was affected by a decrease in oil production by 1.7%, coal by 5%, and iron ore production by 22%.
including, according to indicators: protection of minority investors, insolvency resolution, obtaining a loan, connection to the power supply system, registration of property, taxation, international trade.
Employment roadmap in the new economic conditions 2020, "said Duissenova.
Since the beginning of the campaign, 590 such campaign materials of the Nұr Otan party, 146 khp materials, 166 White Way materials, 85 Unity materials, 46 SPP materials, 130 aul materials have been published and published, he said.
mainly issues of cooperation in the political and economic spheres.
the highest rates of conscripts delayed for health reasons (in need of treatment) are 56%, in 2nd place - Kostanay region 21-23%, in 3rd - Pavlodar region - 20%.
According to the results of 2015, the coverage of patients with a multidisciplinary form of tuberculosis (hereinafter - kdt TB) with second-line medicines in the civil sector amounted to 99.4%, in the penitentiary sector - 98% (standard - 85%).
In this regard, the interdepartmental commission on international, humanitarian law proposed ratifying this concept by protocol 8 and 14 decisions on an international human rights treaty under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, "said the Vice Minister of Science and Education.
the second is the program of President Nursultan Nazarbayev "Nұr Zhol."
289.9 billion tenge has been legalized, "the report said.
Since 2016, new public councils will be created and reformatted in central and local state bodies on the principles of autonomy, independence, publicity, periodic rotation.
Also in December 2015, at the initiative of President N. Nazarbayev, a universal declaration was created at the UN general assembly on the creation of a world free of nuclear weapons, and 10 years ago Kazakhstan showed strong leadership in creating a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia. "
Thus, based on the costs of the agro-industrial complex, as well as the remuneration for loans and leasing, from January 1, 2016, funds for subsidizing agriculture will be reoriented to investment subsidies (up to 30% of the investment amount), "the statement said.
According to him, the initiative on the dialogue of the Ministry "s5 + 1" is aimed at the development of the trade and economic sphere between the countries of Central Asia and Kazakhstan, as well as at further optimal use of trade directions and the opening of a new silk road.
In particular, in January 2016, the Ministry of Agriculture and Aktobe, West Kazakhstan, Kostanay regions and the transnational company inalcaeurasia signed an agreement on interregional cooperation in animal husbandry totaling 100 million euros.
In just a few months of 2015, huge work was carried out to legislate and organize the start of five institutional reforms.	we did a huge work over the course of just a few months of 2015 in terms of legislative support of the start of the implementation of five institutional reforms .	1,89
In addition, rental communal housing with an area of ​ ​ 150 thousand square meters was provided to waiting parties and 87 thousand square meters of housing were built and rented to young families.	leased municipal housing for the people in a waiting list in the amount of 150 thousand square meters and 87 thousand square meters for young families were built and purchased .	1,89
By a decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 3, 2015, Major General generously awarded the Order of Glory of the II degree, Colonel of Justice Bekov, Muratzhan Zhumagaziev, Colonel Kaysar Muganov, Colonel Toleubek Suleimen of the II degree "Aybyn."
today, in terms of the nation "100 concrete steps," we unite our main basis - independence, "said Z. Shaukenova.
the deputy director also noted that during the implementation of the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" it is necessary to work quickly and adopt structural changes in the economy and management system.
During the formation of the republican budget for 2017-2019 in April-August 2016, a full audit of republican and local budget programs will be carried out with the optimization of budget expenditures by eliminating inefficient expenses and expenses that the private sector can finance, "the minister said.
The memorandum on the acquisition of 7 es-125 helicopters was signed by representatives of the East Kazakhstan regional akimat, 18 es-130 helicopters - by the management of Kazmedair LLP.
According to the court, since the beginning of 2016, 205 criminal cases have been opened on the participation of Kazakhstani citizens in foreign military conflicts over a terrorist group. Yermekbaev.
in particular, Kuandyk Bishimbayev announced the current macroeconomic state of Kazakhstan and the ongoing reforms within the framework of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms.
According to the expert, in order to implement the message of the head of state in April of this year, Kazakhstan plans to hold a republican competition of professional skills "worldskills kazakhstan" among youth aged 18 to 22 years.
The head of state who arrived in Brussels took part in the ceremony of laying flowers in memory of the victims of the terrorist act on March 22 at the Malbek metro station.
In order to further strengthen cooperation between the World Bank and Kazakhstan, on January 21, 2016, during the World Economic Forum in Davos, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Bank on the creation and operation of offices in the Republic of Kazakhstan. in order to strengthen the cooperation between kazakhstan and the world bank , on 21 january 2016 during the world economic forum in davos the government of kazakhstan and the world bank have signed an agreement on the establishment and functioning of the offices in kazakhstan .
Shanghai University of Foreign Languages "Center for the Study of Kazakhstan" at Dalian University of Foreign Languages ​ ​ (opened November 16, 2015) and Beijing University of Foreign Languages ​ ​ (opened December 13, 2015) are the third after the centers.
the head of state always speaks about this.
Since 1993, the company has been building sea boats and ships with a displacement of up to 250 tons for the naval forces and the border service of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
all this is our homeland, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The company, which is the only plant in Kazakhstan for the production of sucker rods, provides more than 80% of the country's market and supplies equipment to Uzbek oil companies.
- hairova village, managing partner of kpmg in Kazakhstan and central Asia;
The national plan for the sustainable development of the country's economy and improving the well-being of citizens will be within the framework of the implementation of five institutional reforms proposed at "100 concrete steps," he said.
recently, he said that during a speech at the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, he did his daily work, but he saved 121 lives with such a decisive deed.
The German diplomat also said that the rules of "nұrly zhol" will be taken into account as part of the economic activity of the yeiku in 2016 during the chairmanship of Germany in this organization.
The head of state at the extraordinary XVII Congress of the Nur Otan Party identified guidelines for the state and people, set tasks for the party and called on all party organizations to implement 5 institutional reforms.
At the end of 2016, it is planned to complete the projects "Western Europe - Western China," "," "Astana-temirtau," "Almat-Kapshagai-Taldykorgan," "" Capital-Petropavlovsk. "
twice a week 4 10 hours a day, a voluntary student helps library staff conduct excursions, place books in the main book fund and writes articles about the life of the library.
Since the beginning of 2016, with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, a meeting of the Aktobe delegation has been organized with a group of business representatives of China, Turkey, Iran, Poland, Slovakia, Croatia and France.
local budget expenditures in 2016 excluding targeted transfers from the national budget will amount to 253 billion 374 million 499 thousand tenge, including: operating expenses - 132 billion 113 million 495 thousand, reserve of the local executive body - 2 billion 340 million 966 thousand, budget collection - 97 billion 684 million 008 thousand, development budget - 11 billion 012 million 030 thousand, financing of targeted transfers of budget development from the local budget of about 10.2 billion tenge.
During the visit, a round table was held with the participation of representatives of the seda alternative energy development agency, the greentech research center, the state oil and gas company Petronas, the matrade foreign trade development corporation, the mida investment development agency, the matta national tourism association and others.
Recall, on April 14, the National Academic Library held a meeting of the deputy chairman - head of the kha tuganov secretariat with a representative of the section of the Union of European and Foreign Economic Affairs, Society and the Environment (France).
- Project leader of Bi-group LLP Serikbay Tashenov;
Kazakhstan took 26th place in the global competitiveness index of the 2015 World Economic Forum in terms of the indicator "the share of working women, comparable to men."
The Chairman of the Board of the holding also noted that 320 billion tenge was allocated in the form of investments, these funds were allocated for the implementation of 13 new large industrial projects in the field of chemistry, production and oil refining, metallurgy and food industry.
In particular, in Saryagashe the corresponding works 2 on providing with drinking water, 12 on natural gas supply, 4 on power supply, 18 on objects of education, 4 on health care facilities, 10 buildings in the sphere of sport, culture and housing construction and 49 objects for road construction are conducted.
the first week included enhanced physical training, consisting of a 15-kilometer cross in uniforms and equipment, a 10-kilometer race with a 20-kilogram load at the place of destination.
we want to create new joint ventures and develop trade relations. we are interested in opening of new joint ventures and the development of trade relations .
At the same time, T. Okhlopkova noted that each candidate for deputy of the Majilis has the right to accompany only 3 proxies.
Over the past 5 years, investments in the amount of 12.6 billion US dollars have been attracted to the fixed capital of Aktobe region, of which 36% or 4.7 billion dollars are accounted for by foreign direct investment.
the company "tes water group" will come to Aktobe region.
these are "maslo del," "rg brands," "" alageum group, "" "button accordion beauty," "" alina, "as well as" eurasian foods corporation. "
It is worth noting that in the spring and autumn period, the city authorities, together with citizens, plan to plant at least 45 thousand trees in accordance with the action plan
The main tasks of the summit, which will last until January 21, are to discuss ways of energy transformation of the world and make joint decisions on the formation of the energy of the future.
- We considered this issue for 4-5 years.
The Minister of Energy said that the volume under consideration to reduce oil production to 77 million tons this year is planned to be filled by commissioning the field, which was later mothballed.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat commented on President Nazarbayev's message "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reform, development," the national plan "100 concrete steps," and also voiced new opportunities for bilateral trade and economic, innovative, scientific and technical cooperation between Kazakhstan, Germany and the EU.
During the visit, the heads of the companies "akgun insaat makina industry," "" plaswin, "" "tades," "" "es shipeli tektil" "got acquainted with the work of the southern, Kazakh-Turkish industrial zones and the special economic zone" south. "
In the training of specialists for agriculture, transport, metallurgy, mechanical engineering, oil and gas, chemistry and mining, 20 leading colleges of the region introduced elements of dual training in 26 specialties with 56 enterprises.
he was ambassador to European and Asian states.
Governor of Akmola region told about volumes of physical production in 2015 - 6.9%, agriculture - 2.1%, construction works - 6.1%.
improving corporate governance is an important element in the development of the country's economy, as well as a necessary condition for Kazakhstan to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world, "said B. Sagintayev.
In the National Plan of 100 concrete steps, the head of state outlined the need for energy service contracts and the involvement of large international companies in order to implement five institutional reforms.
commemorative coins with a nominal value of 100 tenge with the value indicated throughout the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan are mandatory for all types of payments, as well as for crediting and transfer to bank accounts, are continuously minced and converted in all banks of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He also noted that in May 2014, at the initiative of the head of state, a framework partnership agreement was signed in order to further strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank.
the construction of all facilities will be completed at the end of this year.
- A programme of cooperation between the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Industry, Mines and Trade of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the field of industrialization;
for example, "nomad gold," "property of the republic," "space" and other commemorative coins of the series.
I am in Kazakhstan for the first time. i am in kazakhstan for the first time .
in addition, by April 10, the portal will hold a public discussion of the concept of the draft Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget, as well as on customs regulation."
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that the design of the Karachaganak field is nearing completion, and noted that an investment decision on the transition to the implementation of the expansion project in the future may be made in 2018.
When studying the composition of foreign trade turnover by goods, the basis of imported goods is equipment and mechanisms (52%), including goods coming from outside, 7 and 8 percent, electric machines and devices, products of inorganic chemistry, plastics and products from them, as well as ferrous metal products.
in this area, within the framework of the program of forced industrial development in the region, Skz-u LLP with an annual capacity of 500 thousand tons of sulfuric acid in the Zhanakorgan region and Khuyu International LLP in Kyzylorda are operating on an ongoing basis;
Sultanov noted that despite the fact that the plan for the commissioning of housing in 2015 was implemented with an excess of 16.9%, there are not enough square meters in apartments.
Now the current investors intend to launch by the end of 2016 year a 8 of projects in the amount of $ 104 million, which will create 360 jobs, "said the deputy chairman.
In Akhko, interest-free assistance will be provided to investors introducing a business that will become an unusual system in the post-Soviet space, introduce exemptions from a number of taxes up to 50 years, and facilitate the labor and visa regime. investors are provided with unprecedented conditions for doing business , which have no analogues in the post-soviet territory : exemption for a number of taxes for up to 50 years , labor and easy visa regimes .
From January 1, 2016, the laws "On Agricultural Cooperatives" and "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts on Agricultural Cooperatives" will enter into force.
We are working with these mandatory state bodies and from September 2016 we will increase the state order to implement the order of the head of state in 2017, "added A. Sarinzhipov.
this year the exhibition program is impressive and impressive.
good project. it 's a good project .
project cost is 758.7 million tenge.
5 projects will be implemented through the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction with an increase of 171.1 billion tenge.
1 . In connection with the Nuclear Security Summit (JAX) in Washington, we, Kazakhstan and Japan, reaffirm our position on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free world, and consider this to be the main goal of humanity in the twenty-first century.
During the meeting, the embassy familiarized with the message of the President of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development," the national plan "100 concrete steps," as well as target indicators for the implementation of the Comprehensive Privatization Plan in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2016-2020.
President of Azerbaijan congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on the coming New Year.
100 concrete steps announced by the Head of State. "
Of these funds, 78 billion tenge will be allocated to accelerate infrastructure projects envisaged for 2016, of which 28 billion tenge - to build 42 new schools in order to completely get rid of emergency schools and three-shift training until the end of 2017.
We handed over all the voiced issues to the Kazakh government.
I met with the Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo abe. i have just had a meeting with japanese prime minister shinzo abe .
The project, which plans to export a 50% and 50% domestic market, involves the production of chicken products from an assortment that has undergone deep processing (washing - sausage and sausage products).
in order to restore the fertility of the sown areas of these peasants, 78.1 thousand tons of mineral fertilizers and more than 52 thousand tons of fuel and lubricants were provided at a cheaper price.
When weighing the import composition by country, the share of basic goods remains (52%), 23% is imported from Spain, 5% is imported from Finland, 3% from Uzbekistan and Lithuania.
We hope that Kazakhstan will enter 30 leading countries of the world! "said S. Hyrullin.
the capital of Kazakhstan "is a phenomenon for the country's economy.
3 groups of manufacturing, infrastructure, energy and other domestic companies will be involved in the creation of joint ventures with anchor investors.
We believe that the creation of an Islamic organization for food security will increase wheat exports by 1 million tons annually, "the Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Yermek Kusherbayev said at a press conference.
In the period from October to November 2015, 1 million 700 thousand people were vaccinated, including 10% of the population of the Republic (children with chronic mild, cardiovascular diseases, immunodeficiency, weak and frequent diseases, medical workers, pregnant women, etc.).
- Natalia, congratulations on the New Year!
In general, after the establishment of production from cow's milk, in 2006 it was possible to launch the production of shubat.
At the same time, in accordance with the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014 "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the size of state social benefits for disability and loss of a breadwinner will increase by another 25% from January 1, 2016.
After participating in legislative activities, according to the deputy, a lot of work was done, a reliable regulatory framework was created for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms and new laws were issued.
It should be noted that in June 2016, a regular meeting of the congress secretariat is planned, on the eve of which the international conference "Religion against Terrorism" will be held in the capital with the participation of international parliamentarians, authoritative religious figures and religious experts.
we support this initiative, "he said.
at this stage, Kazakhstan has economic and social achievements. at the present time kazakhstan has its own economic and social achievements .
Recall, on January 13, proposals were made to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on early parliamentary elections and on holding maslikhats at all levels.
K. Tokayev informed about the creation of the national plan "100 concrete steps" in the framework of the implementation of large-scale institutional reform and expressed gratitude to the guests for participating in the forum.
Recall that as part of the 27th step of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, the further development of the institution of private bailiffs and a gradual reduction in the public service of bailiffs is envisaged.
Today, about 30% of tourist facilities of the capital are included in the list of programs, the main goal of which is to create comfortable conditions for tourists from China, "said the President of the National Association of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan.
Beijing University of Foreign Languages ​ ​ was founded in 1941, is currently one of the largest specialized educational institutions of world level in the training of synchronists, specialists in the field of diplomacy, foreign trade.
According to the head of the committee, according to the results of the investigation, the prices in the sugar and poultry meat market in Almaty and Pavlodar regions were unreasonably increased, brought to administrative responsibility, 3 million tenge were reimbursed.
Within the framework of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," graduates of educational institutions will have the opportunity to undergo youth practice, and people from target groups - to find employment in social jobs.
Such a model of 0%, 5% and 12% is used only for import customs duties, thus, the codes of seconds and the rate of import customs duties are limited, "the report said.
Thus, on the instructions of the head of state, tax benefits will be provided up to 50 years, reduced foreign exchange, visa and labor procedures for bodies, participants and employees will apply.
Since the beginning of the year, 740 thousand reports and statements about administrative offenses have been provided in Kazakhstan, 136 thousand of them are criminal offenses, a pre-trial investigation has been launched on them, "Kassym said.
the agreement signed with Iran was the first agreement after the lifting of sanctions, we agreed with the Iranian side to launch 14 flights a week.	as per an agreement with iran , 14 flights will be operated every week from two kazakhstani cities [ astana , almaty - editor ] to tehran .	1,94
According to the director of the Karaganda regional branch of the National Company Kazavtodor, 149.8 km of 2773 km of roads were reconstructed and overhauled.
so, "in five years, the manufacturing industry has increased 1.3 times, chemistry and the production of building materials - 1.7 times, engineering - 2.2 times and export - 3 times."
During the visit, more than ten documents worth $13 billion were signed, as well as several negotiations on public service and mutual legal assistance to create the Capital International Financial Center.
K.Mashimov and F.Hoghan noted the importance of implementing the agreement on expanding partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, signed in December 2015, and expressed satisfaction with the pace of development of bilateral relations.
In 2014, the first series of the animated multi-part film for children 3-7 years old "My Family" and "Elegance" was released, in 2015 - the sequel "My Homeland" and "Who I Am."
Thus, according to Italian technology, the construction of the shoe factory of Kazlegprom-Almaty LLP will begin in the city, which will be commissioned in 2017.
a car 6.5 m long, 3 m high, and with a maximum speed of 120 km/h, which does not choose the road, is fully protected from improvised bombs used in terrorist acts.
we are all alone, we are one country.
The conference was attended by representatives of 47 states, including a delegation of the armed forces of Kazakhstan under the leadership of Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Major General Amir Khalikov.
To date, within the framework of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public-Private Partnership," the PPP operator of Astana, like Astana Innovations JSC, oversees 14 projects in the field of transport, education and healthcare.
if before the new provisions of the law, which entered into force on December 1 last year (on legalization), only 425 billion tenge were legalized, then 362 billion tenge were additionally legalized over the past three months, the head of the Ministry of Finance emphasized.
this is an important issue.
The Public-Private Partnership Project Support Center has been headed by the supervisory board since March 2014, the board of directors of baiterek venture fund JSC (a subsidiary of Kazyna Capital Management JSC) since the summer of 2014.
cost - 5.5 billion tenge.
309 citizens received consultations on labor legislation (conclusion and termination of an individual labor contract, collective agreement, as well as an increase in the remuneration of civil servants, non-payment of wages, etc.).
For the timely completion of work on the Astana-temirtau and Astana-Pavlodar roads, loans will be additionally attracted under state guarantees in the amount of 75 billion tenge in 2016 and 225.1 billion tenge in 2017-2018, "the minister said.
In 2015, more than 18 thousand jobs were created, highly skilled personnel work, the unemployment rate in the capital fell to 4.6%, which is lower than the republican average.
According to the press service of the party, 127 people were included in the party list of candidates for deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On March 2, the CEC of Kazakhstan determined the amount of expenses during campaigning by candidates for deputies of the Paralympic meeting from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. on march 2 the cec has set spending for each candidate for election campaign funded from the national budget .
Following today's meeting, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan agreed to gradually reduce these excise taxes until 2020.
agricultural exports increased by 59% and exceeded 2.0 billion US dollars, including exports to the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union amounted to 379 million US dollars.	during his speech a. mamytbekov noted that  the export of agricultural products and its processing increased by 59 % and amounted to more than 2.0 billion dollars , including the eaeu countries exports totaled us $ 379 million . "
38 applications for legalization of property worth 1044.4 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2015, the UN Secretary General, Deputy Secretary General - Administrator Buudb and Clark and other senior officials arrived in Kazakhstan on a final visit.
According to forecasts, this will provide a double (multiple) increase in lending to the agro-industrial complex without attracting budget funds until 2020.
March 1 was declared a day of gratitude by presidential decree, this day was a day of gratitude to the Kazakh people, in 1937, when difficult times were born for Koreans, they accepted and cared for our parents. in my opinion , gratefulness day , which will be celebrated on march 1 , is koreans ' thanks to the kazakh people , who in 1937 supported our parents .
In his speech, the senator informed that the law "On Public-Private Partnership" adopted in Kazakhstan in October 2015 was developed in order to implement five institutional reforms announced by the head of state n.a.
Currently, a grouping of republican funds for eliminating forest-steppe fires has been identified in the country - 4779 motor vehicles, 11 helicopters with drainage devices, 47 fire trains and more than 34 thousand people.
Thus, in order to strengthen regional efforts for the sustainable development of small island developing countries, Kazakhstan, with the assistance of ESCAP, supported 12 Pacific countries to develop renewable energy through biogas in 2014.
He told his colleague about the Ministry's plans to invest in the domestic road industry in the next 5 years and that Kazakhstan is interested in the Japanese experience in the field of technology.
As world practice shows, communication centers that create a management system in accordance with the requirements of the en 15838 standard will contribute to the achievement of the main goals of companies, "the report said.
The new clinical training building provides 16 rooms, 8 laboratories and 5 drug rooms, 7 study rooms and 18 classrooms, 2 conference rooms equipped with simulation devices for practical training.
The visit of the head of state to Germany in February 2012, two visits of Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2010 gave a significant impetus to our relations, new contacts are currently being established at a high level, "said R. Vasilenko.
this is a potential direction, "said akim.
in particular, 500 billion tenge will be allocated for transfer to foreign currency for investment in foreign markets in order to ensure diversification of budget funds and increase the profitability of pension savings of citizens.
The signing of the loan agreement is a continuation of the first agreement between the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan and Kazavtodor and the EBRD, concluded in November 2015 as part of the visit of the head of state to the UK.
In just a few months of 2015, huge work was carried out to legislate and organize the start of five institutional reforms.
the assets of the samruk treasury fund make up more than 40% of GDP, consist of more than 500 "grandchildren" and "great-grandchildren."
The agreement between Kazakhstan and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters was concluded in London on November 3, 2015.
this issue is being implemented by the national operator Kaztransgaz.
Also during the event, the parties discussed a strategy for joint actions between Ukraine and the EU in connection with the introduction of a free trade zone on January 1, 2016.
happy New Year!
in Mangistau region, 204 people will be provided with jobs as part of a project to expand the northbound rehabilitation sea international commercial port.
The tender commission preliminary analyzed and considered the submitted applications and their materials by open voting and, as a result of the rating rating, 2 applicants (praliev k.d., nukeshev s.p.) chose.
these are "nұr otan," "village," "Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan," the white road, "" unity. "
on the sections of Akmola, Almaty, Zhambyl, Aktobe, Atyrau, Mangistau road branches of Railway Repair LLP and Guide LLC, more than 240 thousand km of roads will be radically updated.
19 settlements will receive connection to a centralized water supply system, as a result of which security will reach 83.1%.
the document provides for the creation on the white basis of the Ulba Metallurgical Plant of the production of fuel compounds with an annual production capacity of 200 tons for nuclear power plants of the PRC.
responsibility for the fate of the motherland, your hearts, your deep knowledge and life principles will become the basis of the initiative of the head of state to enter the 30 developed countries, "said the Secretary of State.
alageum electric, "oxy textile," "maslo del," "eurasian foods" and other domestic companies will discuss the possibility of expanding the supply of export products to the Iranian market.
all regions of Kazakhstan participate in construction.
Recall that in 2015, the specialists of the Ministry of Health and Social Development activated the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State to prevent unemployment.
According to Nurzhan Moldiyarul, 208 specific enterprises, mini-plants and workshops for the processing of agricultural products are currently operating in the region.
because sustained and restrained economic growth and labor productivity are necessary conditions for realizing success on the agenda for sustainable development in harmonized economic, social and environmental development until 2030, "T. Bonapache said.
According to him, during the implementation of the tasks outlined in the Plan of the Nation "100 specific steps," this is one of the main areas as a vector for the advancement of the region.
In addition, the report notes that according to the results of 5 months of 2016, the "white wheat-terminal" transported 356.8 thousand tons of grain through the grain terminal to the white stone port.
This agreement will replace the agreement on the creation of a permanent mission in Almaty in 1994, "Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan marat kusainov said at a plenary session of the Majilis of Parliament.
As a result of the implementation of the new state program by 2020, life expectancy of the population of Kazakhstan will increase to 73 years.
It is worth noting that all parties that go to the polls support the Kazakhstan-2050 development strategy and are ready to make all efforts for the dynamic development of the country.
On May 12, humanitarian assistance was officially provided, in which the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Tajikistan nurlan Seytimov and the Deputy Director of the Agency for State Material Reserves under the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan sohibjon Ziedulloyev took part, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
As Y. Karin noted, the "Nұr Otan" party began elections with a list of 70% of the new composition, updated less than half of the "white road" and "khp."
On legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, the tax authorities received 53 applications (declarations) for legalization of housing facilities in the amount of 1,772,5 million tenge.
In 2015, the number of active small and medium-sized businesses increased by 0.4% compared to 2014, reaching 98.9 thousand people, "the report said.
the satellite has been placed in geostationary orbit, at 95 ° west longitude, and will provide uninterrupted broadcasting services in Latin America for 15 years.
the key principles of soundness, continuity, transparency, monitoring and monitoring, based on eidu recommendations, should then be 5 in the planning, design and implementation of programmes at all levels.
to increase the level of accessibility of housing for the population in 2016-2018, the construction and purchase of rental housing or about 817 apartments with a volume of 13,600 thousand square meters. m. in order to improve housing affordability in 2016-2018 the construction of rental housing and the acquisition of an area of ​ ​ 817 thousand square meters, or about 13,600 apartments will kill.
At the 37th step of the "Plan of the Nation 100 Concrete Steps," the head of state outlined the task of optimizing import customs duties according to the "0-5-12" model.
Vice Minister noted that an excellent example of successful cooperation is the creation of a heavy ion accelerator dz-60 in the capital 10 years ago.
The agenda of the meeting of the chamber, which will be held on January 14, 2016, includes the issue of the deputy's transfer to the committee on socio-cultural development and science of the Senate of parliament.
According to Denmark's energy strategy, the government plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% and by 2020 it is planned to increase the share of renewable energy sources to 50%.
Over these 12 years, we have collected many events, studied many materials, now we have the opportunity to freely show the collected materials, "said the deputy director of the museum of the first president of Kazakhstan.
The volume of cargo turnover in January-March 2016 amounted to 118.7 billion tkm (taking into account the estimate of the volume of freight turnover of individual entrepreneurs engaged in commercial transportation) and increased by 0.3% compared to January-March 2015.
During the meeting, the parties summed up the results of the work done at the intermediate stage of preparation for the 28th winter universiade in 2017 in Almaty and discussed a joint business plan.
the requirement for service - at least 2 years, which does not depend on the category of applicants, from the English language ielts should be upgraded from 4.0 to 5.0.
In accordance with the calendar plan of the main measures for the preparation and conduct of the next elections of deputies of the maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on February 23, 2016, the registration of candidates for deputies of the maslikhats was completed.
Recall, on January 20, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on the dissolution of the V convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the holding of early elections to the lower house on March 20, 2016.
It is noted that specialists with more than 20 years of judicial experience are exempt from periodic assessment of judges of professional activities.
For the functioning of the Islamic organization for food security, it is necessary to ratify the rules signed by 10 states that have so far been ratified in Kazakhstan and Nigeria, "he said.
A. Beissenbayev got acquainted with the work of the Senate, based on the main issues of implementing the Nұrly zhol program and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" to implement five institutional reforms.
this is not a new question. this issue is not new .
To implement the best international standards with the participation of authoritative foreign judges and lawyers, an international council at the highest court of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been created as part of the implementation of 25 steps of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
in particular, the Central Election Commission, together with the Committee on Communication, Informatization and Information, monitors 16 republican television channels, 12 radio channels, 48 republican newspapers, 15 magazines, 159 Internet resources, 31 regional television channels and 174 regional newspapers on a daily basis.
The Japanese political scientist praised the political and socio-economic reforms carried out in Kazakhstan over 25 years, and also praised the friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Japan.
The fund was created in the second half of 2014 and for the year invested 7 billion tenge on 6 projects, in particular, textile and chemical industry, energy and transport, "said A. Agybayev.
So, the management company carried out 4 business trips to Turkey, where it held business forums and bilateral meetings in the cities of Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, gaziantep, Adana, Konya, Antalya.
we are implementing this system, "he said.
The celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate is important primarily for worshiping the high spirit of our hero ancestors and in order to avenge the history of ancestors who have experienced a variety of difficulties of fate, "the akim of the region said during the ceremony.
investors invested 0.5 billion tenge in projects, "he said.
The CEC also published an appeal for voters, in which we said that from January 27, the electoral border of polling stations will be approved in the garden of all levels.
the proposed draft for 100 concrete steps of the national plan "corresponds to the approved instructions and program documents implemented in state bodies, primarily law enforcement agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in Taraz - 3, in Karatau - 2 sports grounds for futsal, basketball and volleyball games.
As the head of state noted, working professions are needed, "after graduation, one goes to university, the other to college, and the remaining 30% to the army.
In 97-98, a financial crisis began in Southeast Asia, the Russian ruble fell, and the price of oil at that time fell to $10 per barrel.
As a result of the event, a list of specific proposals and priority projects was determined, which will be discussed at the next meeting of the intergovernmental working group on trade and economic cooperation, which will be held on June 23 this year in the city of Schwerin (Germany).
Since the beginning of the action, 486 people have been sent to republican medical organizations to receive high-tech and specialized medical care.
Following the results of the competition, the 4 best tank and motorized rifle crews will be selected at the Mailino training ground, which will continue to prepare for the army international games in the tank biathlon and Suvorov branch competitions.
As previously reported, the Government of Kazakhstan in December 2015 adopted a new plan to privatize state assets, according to which it provides for the sale of companies with a state stake in part or in full.
25 good deeds will be carried out in all regions - this is more than 400 good deeds, and all of them will be carried out by women, "he said.
Thus, the head of the ESCAP-subcontracting office of North and Central Asia, titiana bonapace, said that by 2030, countries had begun to implement the sustainable development agenda.
From January 1, 2016, the size of state social benefits for disability, on the occasion of loss of the breadwinner and on age will be increased by 7% due to a change in the subsistence minimum.
94% of the volume of purchases of Samruk-kazyna JSC is about 3.2 trillion tenge, "said Chairman of the Board of Atameken JSC.
In addition to the Italian company participating in the first international forum of meat processing and meat processing industry "kazmeatastana 2016," investors from Canada, New Zealand, Turkey, Russia and other countries plan to import Kazakhstani meat.
In this regard, in order to implement the tasks set by the head of state and the akimat of the region, the concept of socio-economic development of the city of Shymkent until 2020 has been developed, "the akim said.
The "oldest" of them is the Central Asian nuclear-weapon-free zone, established in Semey 10 years ago by five States in the region.
In May, Nursultan Nazarbayev is scheduled to participate in the IX Astana Economic Forum and hold meetings with members of the management council of the international financial center "Capital," as well as Nobel Prize winners, heads of international organizations.
among them, the president of ebra suma chakrabarti, the former lord mayor of London, David Wutton, innovate finance, clifford chance, boston consulting group (bcg), goldman sachs, ubs, morgan stanley, pricewaterhousecoopers, jpmorgan and others.
As a result, total mortality in the region decreased by 14.7%, infant mortality - by 5%, total morbidity - by 5.6%, and mortality from tuberculosis - by 21%.
of these, 19 observers from CIS observer missions, 8 from the Shu mission, 7 from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries and 3 from Ukraine, "said a member of the CEC marat Sarsembayev.
the project provides for the launch of a full stage of processing medical textile fabrics, that is, a reduction in the risk of infection of patients with pathogens of internal diseases by 35%.
As part of measures to eliminate the consequences of spring floods for residents of the region affected by flooding, 346 houses were built in the city of Shakhtinsk, "said N. Abdibekov.
The head of state noted that Sberbank has been operating in the Kazakh market for 10 years and during this time has become one of the leading financial and credit institutions of the republic.
terrorism will be destroyed only by social, political, economic, cultural and ideological measures. "
the design of these coins was developed in accordance with the concept of design of banknotes and coins of the national currency - Kazakh tenge, approved by decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated September 25, 2003 No. 1193 using the official emblem of the Women's World Boxing Championship, which will be held in May this year in the capital of Kazakhstan.
The volume of production of cathode copper for 12 months of 2015 amounted to 0.4 thousand tons of cathode copper extracted from oxidized ore at the aktogai deposit.
On November 30 of this year, sending an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan, President Nursultan Nazarbayev said: "Since energy is cheaper, it is necessary to look for mechanisms for the economic growth of Kazakhstan from the inside."
Not only the "bright path," but also the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" were a response to the current economic situation, which affects not only our country, but also the whole civilization.
Of course, ambitious goals have been set, that is, to increase productivity by 1.5 times in 5 years, but this is still work.
There, the head of state gave specific orders stating the implementation of work on the implementation of five institutional reforms proposed to the population in 2015, "he said.
China is the largest energy producer and consumer, and is also developing innovations in this area, and we are pleased to share our experience with Kazakhstan and other countries participating in expo-2017, "the commissioner said.
According to I. Zhanguzarov, the fee, which is 50% of the cadastral value, is provided for 10 years, it can at any time buy land that is very convenient for farmers.
According to him, in the constituency No. 9 of Petropavlovsk not a single candidate for a deputy seat in the city maslikhat was registered.
In general, in the course of the implementation of measures to save energy and increase the efficiency of production, the kazatomprom plans to save more than 2.7 billion tenge by the end of 2016.
By orders of the Head of State:
Elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels, which will be held on March 20, 2016, will be carried out by 9 territorial, 29 regional districts, 118 districts and cities, as well as 350 polling stations in the Kyzylorda region. the elections of the deputies of the majilis and local maslikhats on march 20 , 2016 in kyzylorda region will be implemented by 9 territorial , 29 regional district , 118 district and city district election commissions , as well as 350 polling stations .
In Kyzylorda region, 559 projects included in the industrial and innovative development program since 2010 received support from the Development Fund, such as interest rate subsidies, loan guarantees or preferential lending.
During the implementation of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, the Office for Investment and Development of Astana and Astana Innovations intend to attract foreign and domestic investments in the capital in order to increase the competitiveness of the white capital and create favorable conditions for the introduction of innovations in the capital.
According to statistics, 43% of tourists coming to Kazakhstan are in Almaty.
The grand opening within the framework of the Universiade will be held in the international complex of ski jumps "Sunkar" (February 6), the closing ceremony - in the Baluan Sholak Sports Palace (February 17), as well as in the Palace of Excavation Students for competition participants (February 11) - a cultural program with the participation of famous athletes, public figures and famous performers.
The Secretary General of the Legislative Assembly noted the progress in the implementation of the decision taken in 2015 to adapt to the development of the crisis system.
the design capacity of the facility is 80 m3 of gas concrete products, the partnership plans to produce more than 14 thousand cubic meters of gas concrete products in 2016.
among them are 197 eku/diakb observers, 293 observers of the CIS mission, 9 from the mission of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, 75 from the eku parliamentary assembly, 3 from the organization of Islamic cooperation, 8 from the inter-parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, 23 observers from 10 foreign countries.
70% of the members of the commission are former civil servants, that is, all issues are resolved from a professional point of view, "he said.
According to the head of the company, today 30% of the total income of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy falls on cargo transportation.
this is one of the most important trends in our economy. "
Sino-reliable partner, and this is our first experience of cooperation. china is our reliable partner , and this is not our first experience of cooperation .
In addition, state support was provided to the project for the purchase of new 200 public transport units of green bus company LLP, which contributed to increasing the activity of passenger transportation of the city to a new level, updating the fleet of passenger transport.
Recall that "100 concrete steps" is a comprehensive plan that meets various external and internal conditions and allows you to enter 30 developed countries.
Currently, the vast majority of nominated candidates are nominated in the North Kazakhstan (239 people), Karaganda (197 people), East Kazakhstan (132 people) and Kostanay (95 people) regions, "said B. Meldeshev.
After the construction of the entire kbt from each node, savings of about 6 million tenge are expected, that is, savings in production costs for the company as a whole will amount to 216 million tenge per year.
In 2015, the parliament ratified the first 3 projects, including stimulating productive innovations, increasing the competitiveness of SMEs, developing job incentives, 293 million dollars.
Kha representatives identified a number of main directions for the development of civil society in Kazakhstan, as well as voiced the "eternal country," "100 concrete steps: a modern state for all," socio-political, institutional reforms.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan informed the Thai Minister about the current socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, noting the development prospects within the framework of the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development" and the National Plan "100 concrete steps."
In Kazakhstan, in the pilot mode, 100 km of territories in the region of the city of stepnogorsk were determined and in the first quarter of this year 10 new agreements were concluded on 25 blocks, "said A. Issekeshev.
According to the director of the company "Retaila-a," which is the founder of the project, the production capacity of the workshop will be 75 tons of finished products per month.
The company rifa holding group decided to invest in the construction of a meat processing plant with a capacity of 17 thousand tons of lamb and beef per year in the East Kazakhstan region and at the same time in feedlots for 50 thousand heads and 1000 heads.
According to him, early elections of deputies of the Majilis, elected by party lists, are scheduled for March 20, 2016, and elections of deputies of the Majilis - for March 21, 2016.
for five months of work on the new terms of the law, that is, after December 1, 2015, 794 billion tenge was legalized, which is two thirds of the total amount for the entire campaign period, B.Sultanov noted.
6 political parties submitted their documents and from the party list of the Nur Otan party you can see an update of the composition, "said the director of the enterprise.
in Alatau district, a project for the construction of a greenhouse complex is being completed, which will reduce the demand for imported tomatoes by 75%.
Currently, there are 304 people in the medical and social organization for the elderly and disabled of Astana, including 4 WWII veterans, 16 citizens equated with them, 34 rear workers.
secondly, we adopted the state program of infrastructure development "Nұrly zhol," - said N. Nazarbayev.
The first satellite of the Skolkovo Orbital Launch Center and the Moscow Aviation Institute is planned to be launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in October 2016.
Recall that the 4th direction of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation is aimed at strengthening the Kazakh identity and forming an integrated civil community.
castransoil amounted to 5 million 506 thousand cubic meters. m, which is 1% lower than the same indicator for the first quarter of 2015.
Judicial activities in the East Kazakhstan region are carried out within the framework of the Plan of the Nation of the Head of State "100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms."
On January 20, the head of state signed a resolution on the dissolution of meetings of the Parliament of the fifth convocation and the appointment of early elections of deputies.
special social services are provided taking into account the individual characteristics of the person in need in 8 areas of life: socio-domestic, socio-psychological, socio-labor, socio-medical, socio-cultural, socio-pedagogical, socio-legal and socio-economic orientation.
K. Mami noted that a new draft of the judicial literary code was developed, which is planned to be adopted at the seventh congress of judges in the fall of 2016.
Recall, on January 20, the head of state supported the initiative of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels on early elections and signed a decree.
It should be noted that Kazakhstan has announced its strong commitment to achieving sustainable development, and the depth of its commitment will be expressed in the sectoral programs "Kazakhstan 2050," "Nұrly zhol" and "100 concrete steps."
we have very strong political and economic ties. our political and economic ties are strong enough .
52 applications (declarations) for legalization of property in the amount of 1 768.9 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 1999, there was a Korean resettlement settlement in the Ushtob, that is, in 1937, we erected a monument of a pyramid made of black stone in gratitude to the Kazakh people.
in his speech e. Idrissov called the international community the head of our state "peace. XXI Century "called for active support for an international initiative aimed at creating an unarmed world until 2045 as part of the 100th anniversary of the UN.
In addition, a number of projects that contribute to the socio-economic development of the city will be implemented in the industrial zone with infrastructure of 40 hectares of land.
On New Year's Eve, deputies of the city maslikhat, Nurotanovites of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk took the horse to secondary school No. 45, congratulated the students on the holiday and presented gifts.
48 applications (declarations) for legalization of property in the amount of 1 755.3 million tenge were received on legalization of property located outside the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is our important neighbor, friend and reliable partner.
the enterprise is located in the economic zone "capital - new city."
it is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Document of 2011 on measures to strengthen reliability and security, "the military personnel of the Center for Arms Control and Inspection in Kazakhstan noted.
In his speech, the senator spoke about the implementation of the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," the legislative activity of the parliament, invited the seminar participants to take part in the international exhibition expo-2017.
As part of the implementation of this project, by 2018 it is planned to build a field and a mining and processing plant with an annual capacity of up to 2 million tons, and by 2021 - up to 4 million tons.
In addition, within the framework of guaranteed transfers approved by us, to date, there is the possibility of applying a 15% addition/receipt of additional transfers in accordance with the law.
the best business plans receive a grant to open their business during the competition, which is about 4 thousand dollars and good funds for a business initiative.
In addition, the rector of the Karaganda university noted that this year the university began work on training masters in 12 specialties.
In order to create a fund to guarantee equity deposits in housing construction, it is planned to increase the authorized capital of Baiterek nh JSC by 10 billion tenge, "the minister said.
It should be noted that since 2011, the joint venture has established the production of night vision devices, thermal sighting devices and laser reconnaissance devices since its inception.
Last November, a memorandum was signed between the Eurasian Agricultural Holding and the Chinese multinational companies rifa holding group on the implementation of a joint investment project for the construction of a meat processing plant with a capacity of 17 thousand tons of meat products in the Tautuz district of East Kazakhstan region.
however, alexai tsoi currently includes about 644 thousand trade names of 2 international generic medicines with proven clinical effectiveness.
I express my gratitude for the support for the initiative to establish an Islamic organization for food security, proposed in 2011 at the 38th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
He began his career in March 1998 as the chief specialist in the management of the Baikonur cosmodrome of the national aerospace agency of the Academy of Sciences - the Ministry of Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The military unit 85395 (Taraz) summed up the results of the audit, during which the compactness and mobility of the units and their ability to quickly overcome the established distances were checked.
On December 21, 2015, Kazakh Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini signed an agreement on cooperation and expanded partnership between Kazakhstan and the eurozone. on december 21 , 2015 minister of foreign affairs of kazakhstan yerlan idrissov and eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy federica mogherini signed an agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between kazakhstan and the eu , which raises the relationship between the eu and kazakhstan to a new level .
During the meeting, the ministers exchanged views on the implementation of the agreements reached by the heads of member states in 2015 in Ufa.
According to the Ambassador of Canada to Kazakhstan Sean Style, the ceso company has been operating since 1967, now this organization serves not only Canada, but also 120 countries of the world.
As a result of such a large-scale modernization and the use of new technologies in production, we expect a 34% reduction in the cost of finished mineral fertilizers until 2018, but the quality of products will increase. as a result of the large-scale modernization and application of new technologies in manufacturing , we expect to reduce the cost of finished fertilizers by 34 % as early as 2018 .
Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan Daniyar Akishev noted that 910 accounts were opened by banks and 590.3 billion tenge were invested during the campaign period.
To hold early elections of deputies of the Majilis of Parliament and maslikhats in the region, 14 territorial, 206 district election commissions of various levels and 569 precinct commissions were created. 14 regional , 206 district election commissions of different levels and 569 precinct commissions have been created in the region to hold the snap elections of deputies of the majilis and maslikhats of all .
Recall that under the leadership of the general secretariat, an integrated review of Kazakhstan was published, which was launched in 2012.
the first section includes the event of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and presents new opportunities and challenges for Kazakhstan within the framework of the new economic reality, as well as plans for the implementation of the new economic policy and a number of other tasks for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
to conduct an artillery competition for the venue of the competition, it is planned to build a special highway with various obstacles 2 km long.
In general, this year it is planned to increase the volume of meat processing from 20 thousand tons to 28 thousand tons, milk production from 146 thousand tons to 162 thousand tons, and the area of ​ ​ irrigated land from 12 thousand hectares to 18.6 thousand hectares. in general , this year we intend to increase the processing of meat from 20 to 28 thousand tons , milk - from 146 to 162 thousand tons , and the irrigated area will be increased from 12 to 18.6 thousand hectares .
During the construction of the iron ore processing complex, 353 jobs are expected to be created, and after commissioning - about a thousand jobs.
Next 2017 year, it is planned to digitize the work, which will allow investors to eliminate full barriers with the public service. later in 2017 it is planned to switch to the digital format of the work , which will completely eliminate the interaction of investors with public officials .
Speaking about the plans of legislative activity, the Chairman of the Senate recalled the tasks set by the President of Nazarbayev. Opening on March 25 the first session of the VI convocation of parliament.
In addition, the head of state noted significant domestic political and economic events of the country, including the implementation of institutional reforms. Nazarbayev's message "Kazakhstan in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development" and "100 concrete steps."
First of all, let me congratulate everyone on this memorable date, that is, 2 years ago in Astana on May 29, we signed an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, "N. Nazarbayev said.
In addition, the heads of state unanimously decided to extend the term of office of the Secretary General n.bordyuja until January 1, 2017.
pulse. "
bakytzhan sagintayev during the negotiations proposed to include Kazakhstan in the World Bank report "enabling the business of agriculture."
In order to improve the quality of services of the countries participating in the Turkish Council in 2016, the participating states were shown a program developed by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey, "the statement said.
Within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan has drawn up a draft law "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of social protection of the population."
In order to improve the shymkent atmosphere - the center of the South Kazakhstan region on an area of ​ ​ more than 5 thousand hectares, more than 4 million tree seedlings were planted, a "green belt" is being created.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that these measures will allow introducing an additional 1.5 million square meters of housing in 2016 and contribute to the growth of housing.
According to preliminary data, in 2016 it is planned to increase the area for crops to 21.6 million hectares, which is 2015 thousand hectares more compared to 400 years.
In 2015, a large number of apartments were provided in Almaty and Shymkent, as the population prevails in these regions.
The government's plans, announced at the end of last year, are ambitious and far-reaching, as the country becomes a full member of the world trade organization and comes to the goal of becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world and joining the eid.
Recall that 63 delegations from 41 countries of the world will take part in the conference. as well as Austria, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Belarus, Great Britain, Hungary, Germany, Greece, Georgia, Iran, Italy, China, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Russia, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, Turkey, France, Sweden and others.
In particular, 441 million were allocated from the regional budget to the Shymkent Agricultural College. Tenge.
According to him, the Taiynshi district intends to attract 21 billion tenge through the construction of a plant for the production of flour and deep processing of wheat by launching Taiynsha Fat LLP, the construction of a plant for the production of flour by classic agro LLP and other projects.
initiator of "ereimentau wihd pauer" LLP.
Development Bank of Kazakhstan (a subsidiary of Baiterek Holding, hereinafter - the bank, kdb) issued a loan to Kentau Transformer Plant JSC (hereinafter - ktz) aimed at exporting products for up to 3 years.
In addition, Akim Sko discussed issues of housing construction, social facilities, road repair and shared his plans for 2016.
Kazakhstan's economy in 2015 developed under the influence of such negative external factors as the deterioration of the economic situation, a sharp drop in prices in world commodity markets by Chinese and Russian main trading partners. in 2015 kazakhstan 's economy developed under the influence of negative external factors such as the deterioration of the economic situation of the main trading partners china and russia , as well as a sharp decline in prices on world commodity markets .
for example, large-scale companies tecnicas reunidas s.a., indra, acs, airbus, and talgo is successfully implemented in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
In addition, it was instructed to additionally allocate 15 billion tenge under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" to attract the missing infrastructure for small and medium-sized businesses.
Since its convening, Parliament has adopted 7 codes, 59 independent laws, 205 laws amending and supplementing certain legislative acts, and 237 laws ratifying international treaties and agreements.
Since the implementation of the project in the context of subsidized projects, the share of transport and warehousing is 35.3% or 169 projects and manufacturing - 25% or 120 projects.
During the meeting, the Deputy Minister briefed foreign experts on the reforms of the judicial system carried out within the framework of the National Plan "100 Concrete Steps - a Modern State for All," voiced by the President of the country.
After the introduction of the updated program, in middle and high school, the school week will be 34 weeks, that is, only 10 days, along with a footnote, students will have 34 (Saturdays) weekends per year.
The 34 best military medical specialists from 5 teams of regional commands and military branches are trained and compete in the "military medical relay" competition among the ground forces.
go, Kazakhstan!
In total, the program "Business Road Map 2020" provides for 10 projects worth 661.2 million tenge, including from the republican budget (national fund) - 595.1 million tenge, from the regional budget - 66.1 million tenge.
The Chairman invited his colleagues to participate in the international conference "Religions against Terrorism," which will be held in the capital on May 31, at which parliamentarians from around the world and representatives of world and traditional religions will gather for the first time.
Paragraph 12 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Regulation of Production and Turnover of Certain Types of Petroleum Products" was amended to determine the tasks of oil producers.
the company has to undergo appropriate reconstruction in order to qualitatively switch to the production of ships weighing up to 600 tons.
The delegation of Almaty city includes Deputy Mayor of Almaty Arman Kyrykbayev, Head of the Directorate of Winter Universiade 2017 asset abdoualiyev, Director of Chimbulak Development LLP Yerzhan Erkinbaev.
Note that the state commission in the near future agreed to sell a 100% stake in Euro-Asia Air Airlines JSC, owned by Kazmunaigaz and Bely, through an open two-stage competition.
Recall that World Metrology Day is celebrated by the international community on May 20 in honor of the anniversary of the signing of the "metric convention."
among them are representatives of the Austrian press agency, France-press, Xinhua (Commonwealth telegraph agency), tomson-reuters, European pressphoto, as well as the newspapers the financial times, the guardian, Russian newspaper, etc.
attracting additional cargo flows to Kazakhstan routes will increase transit traffic by all modes of transport from the current 18 million tons to 33 million tons in 2020 and to 50 million tons in 2030.
The local akimat, thanks to the support of the Development Fund, received 12% of loans per year, of which 6% is financed by the state.
In addition, the election campaign, held from March 6 to March 19 to 12 o'clock in the morning, is carried out only through a personal meeting of the candidate and with the participation of their proxy as a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "he said.
According to the press service of the theater, on December 16, opera scenes and the choir and symphony orchestra of the Opera Capital Theater will perform in the marble hall of the theater.
for 2 months of the current year 53.8 thousand tons of products were produced (production - 38.0 thousand tons., pr. F/flour - 15.8 thousand tons.).
In particular, 10 agreements were signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to modernize the infrastructure networks of the city of Kyzylorda, "the deputy akim of the region said.
At the end of January and February 2016, there was a slight decrease in industrial production in the region, especially in the field of construction.
During the meeting, K. bozumbayev reported to the head of state on the socio-economic development of the region for 11 months of this year and the tasks for the upcoming period.
Early elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, elected by the party list, will be held on March 20, 2016. according to the presidential decree the snap elections of the majilis deputies , elected on party lists , will be held on march 20 , 2016 .
58 - from individuals; 8 - from gardens; 1 - regional maslikhat; 8 - public associations (including political parties); 9 - from territorial election commissions.
This is not only light industry, but also dynamic development, which currently offers 500 new jobs, "he said.
The events were attended by heads of the highest supervisory authorities of 34 countries of Europe, Latin American countries, as well as representatives of international and regional organizations of prosecutors, the Prosecutor General's Office said.
We accept 120 people, and they will work in these two specialties, based on the best world practices of leading universities in the world, "said the rector.
15 thousand young people aged 29 to 90 years are left without professions, and most of them are unemployed, and we know that 80% of crimes are committed by such unemployed people. 90 thousand young people aged 15 to 29 years do not have a profession , many of them are unemployed , but 80 % of crimes committed by unemployed .
commander of the military unit of qualification 50185 first class colonel ermek saparov and chief of staff lieutenant colonel renat darmen.
to declare national mourning in the Republic of Kazakhstan on June 9, 2016 in connection with the death of military personnel and citizens as a result of a terrorist act committed in the city of Aktobe, the text of the order says.
in conclusion, K. Massimov noted that the country will move in 3 directions: the first is a new economic policy; second, the continuation of reforms; third - all plans should be clear.
in the metallurgical industry for the production of basic precious and non-ferrous metals (uranium oxide products have been extracted from uranium processing at baiken-u LLP in Zhanakorgan district since 2013)
In turn, Bezi Nelson noted that today the bank has invested more than 1 million euros in 180 projects in southern Kazakhstan.
Over the past 5 years, the fixed investment capital of Aktobe region has amounted to 12.6 billion dollars, of which 36% or 4.7 billion dollars of foreign direct investment.
condensate will produce high-octane leaded gasoline of the 5th ecological class and meet world standards, about 200 thousand tons per year.
the possibility of exchanging experience in the field of tourism, involving Polish tour operators in cooperation and openness will allow establishing direct flights between the two countries in 2017.
Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council N. Yermekbayev in his report drew attention to the priorities and tasks of the upcoming period, as well as to the assessment of the results of the work of state bodies for 2015.
The conference will be attended by 63 delegations from 41 countries, as well as Austria, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Belarus, Great Britain, Hungary, Germany, Greece, Georgia, Iran, Italy, China, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Russia, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, Turkey, France, Sweden and others.
At these meetings, the head of khako introduced German and European partners to the activities, goals and priorities of the 10 international financial center "Capital" to become one of the Asian financial centers and plans to create 7-10 thousand jobs in the next 18 years.
This was a popular dream that appeared during the extraordinary presidential elections held in April 2015 and supported by an absolute majority of Kazakhstanis.
An entrepreneur who implements his project in the capital, which can contribute to the priority sector of the economy, will get the opportunity to get a loan with a 7% subsidy through state support, "said the acting Irbekov.
thirdly, given the dynamic development of such areas as alternative energy sources, biotechnology, materials science, in 2017 it was proposed to hold a summit on science and technology in the capital.
Also, the farmers of the region sown chips on 33 thousand hectares (area - 46 thousand hectares), virgin lands on 45.6 thousand hectares (area - 72.4 thousand hectares), potatoes on 6.5 thousand hectares (area - 13.8 thousand hectares), vegetables on 16 thousand hectares (area - 35.7 thousand hectares).
According to the instructions of the Head of State, in 2015 400 billion tenge of free pension funds, taking into account the transition 2016 billion tenge in 1 450 year, will be directed to investing and financing the financial missing sectors of the republic.
under agreements concluded by grain producers with the supply of grain, by 2016 November 1 inclusive.
such assistance will be provided to families with incomes below 50 per cent of the subsistence minimum for each family member.
but in accordance with the legislation, such events should be agreed with local executive authorities 10 days before their holding.
According to the CSR, Kazakhstan supplied meat and products to China for 377.4 thousand dollars, fish, crustaceans and aquatic invertebrates for 1 million 67.3 thousand dollars.
foreign trade turnover in January-October 2015 amounted to 5.2 billion US dollars, including eurozone countries (Russia, br, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan), including exports - 4.4 billion US dollars, imports - 0.8 billion US dollars. the foreign trade turnover in view of the eaeu countries ( russia , belarus , armenia , kyrgyzstan ) for january - october 2015 amounted to 5.2 billion dollars , including export - 4.4 billion dollars , import - 0.8 billion dollars .
During the meeting, Akishev reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the measures taken to ensure stability in the financial market and prevent sharp fluctuations in the national currency, as well as the introduction of money with a face value of 20 thousand tenge.
During the meeting, issues of holding the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017" in Astana were discussed.
According to the General Director of the NPP Wang Junzhen, today Kazakhstan's content on the procurement of the enterprise has increased and amounted to about 20%.
The initiative to establish an Islamic food security organization was put forward by the head of state in 2011 at the 38th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
Today, the realization of the dream of Kazakhstan according to the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" and the creation of a future state, strengthening its main good - our independence.
For the first time, the Almaty-2020 development program was widely discussed with the participation of civil society and representatives of major nationalities and is aimed at creating the most comfortable, safe city for people.
political parties and candidates for deputies of maslikhats determine proxies at their discretion for one polling station in the corresponding district no more than 3 people.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, within the first direction of the program "Housing and communal services 2020" (providing employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services), 522 projects were implemented in 2015, 8.5 thousand people were employed for the created jobs.
Recall that as part of the implementation of 20 steps of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, the introduction of audilbeinfixation in all trials is mandatory.
This is another step in the formation of the global anti-nuclear movement, convened by the President of Kazakhstan from the doubles rostrum in September 2015.
In addition, the head of state online launched a plant for the production of diesel engines gevo LLP "Capital Diesel Service," which offers 87 permanent jobs.
women's business is a success for the country. "
The exhibition allowed visitors to see in photographs and photo chronicles the establishment of a public institute and its achievements over 20 years.
On January 20, a meeting of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan was also held, at which a resolution was adopted on the appointment of regular elections of deputies of the maslikhats of the Republic of Kazakhstan on March 20, 2016 and approval of the corresponding calendar plan.
this is a very important project.
As part of the vocational orientation, colleges organized 36-hour courses on the qualification of work in general education schools.
To date, the party's campaign headquarters are being prepared in all regions of the country on February 20.
Speaking to the participants of the Uchzhensky Summit, Karim Massimov noted that this year marks the 46th anniversary of the advent of the Internet.
in general, since the beginning of the introduction of the system of special social services, the number of citizens provided with services increased from 72.4 thousand people in 2009 to 97.2 thousand people in 2015 (by 34%).
the boston consulting group (bcg) is an international company, a leading consultant on business trust issues.
At the same time, the share of domestic manufacturers in pharmaceuticals increased in 2009 to 49%, in 2014 - to 75%. alibayev.
- Increase annual investment in the economy by more than $10 billion and in 10 years - at least $100 billion;
In addition, 97 billion tenge will be allocated on a return basis to support private construction companies samruk-kazyna.
ya. record 2016 In January, having announced the planned visit to Kazakhstan, the holding intends to hold relevant meetings in the capital regarding the implementation of specific investment projects.
in particular, the Ombudsman received 1,340 written and oral appeals on human rights protection issues during the reporting period, most of which were sent from the cities of Astana and Almaty, Karaganda, Almaty and East Kazakhstan regions.
Also, the Kazakh company meat processing service and Mohammed Khaligri LLP signed an agreement in the amount of $30 million for the export of Kazakh meat.
As incentives to create jobs, microcredit will be expanded and loans will be provided to enterprises with small production up to 6 million tenge.
According to the results of the first day of the national exam, two graduates - students of the Kazakh-Turkish lyceum for girls and school-lyceum No. 15 - scored a maximum score (124).
To date, 414 projects have been developed using the resource method in various regions of the country, of which 287 projects have received a positive expert opinion, 127 remaining examinations are under consideration.
Following the meeting, 10 memorandums of cooperation on agricultural and industrial sectors were signed, as well as on increasing the trade turnover of the regions.
In 2015, xgto implemented 70 projects worth $18 billion, as well as additional programs worth $2.5 million.
The total amount of the credit line is 3.4 billion tenge, of which 9 projects received support for partial guarantee of loans in the amount of 549.3 million tenge, the website of the mayor's office reported.
In addition, for the effective use of the budget through a concession, work is underway on the implementation of the 48-kilometer project "Construction of a new southwestern bypass road of the city of Shymkent."
In April 2015, the presidential election campaign largely helped maintain the key balance of "political opponents" in monitoring public attention, "the expert said.
2015 by the decision of the Commander-in-Chief of the Navy is declared the year of foreman, and 2016 is dedicated to improving physical training in the naval forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that this year about 18 thousand Kazakhstanis aged from 27 to 30 years, who do not have the right to postponement, as well as those expelled from educational institutions that have not reached the age of 27 and have not passed the established period of military service by conscription, are subject to conscription for military service.
In order to support small and medium-sized businesses within the framework of the "Business Roadmap 2020," 200 billion tenge was allocated between the government and the national bank for the implementation of preferential financing of SMEs in the manufacturing industry.
the measures we captured more than 55 thousand people, from them 13 thousand people addressed medical experts of the train "The M G_l_k Ate"", - the chief of the specialized train Ruslan Barbasov told.
Today, 337 hectares are occupied in the industrial zones of Shymkent, 40 hectares in Turkestan and 50 hectares in the Sozak region.
The meeting also considered the reforms of the Republic of Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate, which over the past 15 years have made it possible to attract more than 215 billion dollars of direct investment to the country's economy.
Also, the Secretary of State will hold a number of meetings with officials, business representatives and representatives of the expert community in Washington from March 10 to 12.
The participants of the meeting discussed issues of cultural property related to securities and coins that appeared more than 100 years ago.
- Svetlana Kabykenovna, since 2016, amendments have been made to the legislation, which, in turn, will be implemented within the framework of the Address of Kazakhstan to the people and the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
In his speech, the Kazakh diplomat familiarized the participants with the main aspects of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development," the reform of the national plan "100 concrete steps" and important tasks of the KVN.
this is the adaptation of the budget to the new conditions. "
joint consideration of complaints of offences (1544 requests) with the authorities was carried out through interaction and participation in the work of advisory and advisory bodies.
According to the regional department of state revenues, 25 special declarations worth 6.5 billion tenge have now been adopted in the region on the legalization of funds, the report said.
In April 2016, a mechanism will be introduced to flexibly change the base interest rate, which will be aimed at ensuring price stability and reducing inflation, "he said.
According to the estimates of paired experts, Kazakhstan, which first received comprehensive assistance, has reached the level it provides to these countries during its 24 years of membership in the organization.
According to the press service of the department, a detailed plan for improving the investment climate was adopted to implement the recommendations proposed by Eidu on the basis of the first OECD review in 2012.
The volume of investments in the main fund in January 2016 amounted to 6.5 billion tenge with an additional estimate or 150.1% compared to the corresponding period of 2015.
In 2013, a review of the recommendations of the aidu and the direction of recommendations to study 12 international practices for the development of the country's investment climate were selected, "the statement said.
this program was opened at the initiative of the Academy of Public Administration and is being implemented with the support of the center of international programs "the future" together with the national school of the akimat of France (ena), the Paris University of Pantheon-Sorbonne 1 (France).
A plenary session of the forum, several thematic sessions and workshops, as well as high-level debates and an open discussion with the participation of world policy leaders are scheduled for May 26.
According to the Head of State, by the end of 2014 the volume of Kazakhstan's exports exceeded the volume of the region's exports by 30%.
On May 25, 2016, during the session "50th Anniversary of Buudb: Exploring Opportunities for Accelerated Achievement of Sustainable Development Goals," the role of Buudb in the development of Kazakhstan will be discussed, as well as its further contribution to the goals of sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of February 2016 amounted to 65.9 thousand people or 0.7% of the economically active population.
To date, according to the calculations of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 409 accounts of financial legalization worth 344.3 billion tenge have been opened in second-tier banks as of 25.02.2016.	according to the report , the second-tier banks have opened 409 savings accounts for legalization of money totaling 344,3 billion tenge .	2,14
It should be noted that elections to maslikhats and maslikhats in Pavlodar region are carried out by 14 regional, 206 district, 569 district commissions.	we remind that for snap elections of the deputies of the majilis and maslikhats of all levels pavlodar region formed 14 regional , 206 district election commissions of different levels and 569 precinct election commissions .	2,14
The 240-meter-long pier is designed to receive 10 vessels at the same time, it is also possible to transport food and fuel and lubricants, "the Governor's Office said.
The current task of joining the number of 30 developed countries shows how important the results of our cooperation are, "said the chairman of the committee on technical regulation and metrology.
At the same time, in the region, where the share of greenhouses is 87%, the volume of greenhouses reaches 1023 hectares, where the annual volume of vegetables produced is 150-180 thousand tons.
Next year, according to the construction department of Astana, it is planned to complete the construction of a comprehensive school with 600 seats, two vocational schools with 800 seats, correctional boarding schools with 375 seats and two school schools with 525 seats each.
A project for the production of supports was sent to the regional council for consideration, 3 for the construction of a thermal power plant, reports East Kazakhstan region.
20 territorial, 33 district commissions for the election of the regional maslikhat, 29 district commissions for the city maslikhat, 214 commissions for the district maslikhat and 785 precinct election commissions.
thus, the structure of the supreme judicial council will make not less than 50% of judges and judges in resignation and will be released on a constant basis and to work in appropriate authority.
- Increase the export of processed goods at least twice as much as in 2015 and bring it to $30 billion a year;
After the modernization of three oil refineries in Kazakhstan, by 2018, cars in the country will be fully provided with fuel.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the introduction of mechanisms established by the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" will allow law enforcement agencies to exercise their functions as effectively as possible.
we began to approach our new dream with the creation of a nation plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms.
Recall that the third direction of the ZhKZ 2020 program is assistance in employment through training and resettlement within the framework of the needs of the employer.
The results of the planned measures will help reduce water losses by 15%, accidents in water pipelines - by 27%, and energy absorption - by 20%.
At the suggestion of the Chairman of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev, 2016 has been declared the year of deepening economic relations of the union with third countries and the main integration associations, "Karim Massimov said.
An agreement was also concluded on the construction and implementation of a project for the construction of a 50 MW solar power plant in Almaty region.
80,584 applications (declarations) for legalization of immovable property totaling 818.5 billion tenge were received by the commission under local executive bodies on legalization of property in Kazakhstan.
aa. Idrissov held talks with Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz on topical issues of bilateral cooperation and cooperation in international organizations, including in the context of the chairmanship of the official Vienna Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in 2017.
This project will be implemented as part of the implementation of the limited partnership agreement of the Government of Kazakhstan and the World Bank Group in 2014.
Compared to 2014, the number of employees of working age increased by 2.9% (by 173.8 thousand people), self-employed - by 3.3% (by 76.6 thousand people).
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs submitted to the Central Election Commission 16 first long-term observers on behalf of a democratic institution and a human rights office.
The seminar is attended by 350 specialists from France, Ffr, Qom, Israel, Great Britain, Switzerland, Spain, Norway, Nideolanda, Japan, Canada, Egypt, South Africa, China, South Korea, Iran, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
the strategy indicates measures for the collection of freight and passenger transportation, infrastructure and transport and logistics companies, as well as the development of the ktz group of white companies until 2025.
the first direction is working with political parties.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of parliament on March 20.
The Minister also said that in order to increase the profitability of pension savings until March 2016, approaches to investing pension assets will be revised.
The head of state noted that 66 bilateral documents totaling $2 billion were signed in the metallurgical, mining, agricultural, transport and logistics, tourism, scientific and medical spheres.
Recall, on December 30, 2015, a statement was published by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with progress in the implementation of a comprehensive joint action plan on the Iranian nuclear program.
In 2015, 867 tons of fish worth 4.6 million US dollars and 920 tons of products worth 202 thousand US dollars were sent to European countries.
The Universiade program consists of 10 sports: cross-country skiing, biathlon, presidential all-around, winter sports orientation, alpine skiing, snowboarding, speed skating, short track, ski jumping and ice hockey.
Thus, in the complex in Suzak district the combined enterprise "katko" will invest 400 million tenge in the breeding production of breeding cattle.
in the chess championship, the first place was taken by military personnel of the military unit 14776, the second place - airmobile troops, the third place was taken by the military institute of the ground forces.
On January 21, 2016, through the diplomatic channels of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the first heads of the central election bodies of 18 foreign countries were invited by the chairman of the Central Election Commission.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan familiarized the German audience with the main aspects of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan in the new global reality: growth, reforms, development," the new economic policy "bright path - the way to the future," the national plan "100 concrete steps" and outlined the possibilities of expanding bilateral cooperation within the framework of these strategic documents.
Recall that today Karaganda hosted the IV international investment forum "karaganda invest 1035," in which representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, representatives of potential investor companies, national companies and local government bodies, as well as participants from far and near abroad took part.
For mutual cooperation on anti-corruption issues in the armed forces, other troops and military formations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the meeting participants signed a memorandum, which comes into force on January 1, 2016 and is put into effect.
During the visit, Swedish companies "innoventum," "haldor topsoe" and "dbdh" were presented with the exhibition expo-2017.
In accordance with the election law, the akimats submitted updated voter lists under the act to the relevant precinct election commissions no later than February 28.
The volume of retail trade in January-April 2016 amounted to 2095.9 billion tenge or 97.7% compared to the level of the corresponding period of 2015 (in comparable prices).
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels on March 20, 2016.
under this program, it is planned to organize 23 international competitions at 19 training grounds of military districts, reservoirs of the black and Caspian seas and two training grounds ("masters of artillery fire," "sniper line") in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In September 2012, the Chairman of the People's Republic of China Xi jinping during a visit to Kazakhstan put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating a one-belt-one-way project at a lecture at Nazarbayev University.
36 long-term and 400 short-term observers recommended to be sent to state control participants
Since 2016, the Military Institute of the Ground Forces will begin training cadets in such specialties as "management in military affairs," "logistics in military affairs," "jurisprudence in military affairs."
The event was held within the framework of the project "Partnership between the countries of Africa and Kazakhstan to resolve the situation," which provides technical support to the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of 45 countries of Africa, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
In addition, as Dossayev said, from January 1, 2017, the state register of market entities that have or own monopoly shares will be liquidated.
we are integrated into the world economic system. we are integrated into the world economic system .
Recall that the information and reference center has been operating on the basis of the State Center for the Payment of Pensions since 2011.
On March 19, a competition of the best works and poems in educational institutions will be held, literary evenings will be held in libraries that will tell about the history of the March holiday.
As the head of state noted, the first points of 5 reforms - this is a professional government, justice - began to work for the population from the beginning of the year.
As a result of the work of the Business Council, a package of bilateral commercial documents totaling more than 10 billion US dollars was signed.
In his speech, he noted that, despite the economic crisis, the Eurasian group, which employs about 12 thousand Aktobe residents, fulfills all the conditions and social obligations of its collective agreement next year.
Recall, on December 1, 1991, the first presidential elections were held in independent Kazakhstan, in which Nursultan Nazarbayev won with great confidence of the people - 98.78% of the vote.
The World Bank agreed to allocate funds for youth campus development projects in accordance with the terms or conditions specified in the agreement for the allocation of a grant to the Republic of Kazakhstan in the amount of 21 million 763 thousand dollars.
Pavlodar, sko, zko, aktobe, atyrau region, Almaty region, the share of women was 30%, Kostanay region - 31.6%.
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the lower house of parliament proposed the President of Kazakhstan to hold early elections to the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels.
in the region as part of the industrialization map totaling 869 billion tenge. With the creation of 19.9 thousand jobs, 115 projects are being implemented.
Recall, the 80th step of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan is aimed at strengthening compulsory health insurance for workers and citizens on the basis of state responsibility.
The geography of exports also begins with China (67%), Italy accounts for 22%, the share of exported goods from Afghanistan and Tajikistan is 4%.
As a result, the supply of raw materials from organized farms increased from 15% to 20%, milk production increased by 8.3 thousand tons to 688.2 thousand tons, the loading of dairy plants increased from 75% to 81%.
48 states took part in the 2007 winter Olympic competitions, in 2009 - 44 states, in 2011 - 52 states, in 2013 - 50 states in trentino, and in the granada - 41 states.
This summer, it is planned to hold 23 competitions of army international games on field, air and sea skills of military personnel of various states.
As part of the industrialization map, 40 projects were implemented in the region with the creation of 2264 permanent jobs in the amount of 327.2 billion tenge. within the industrialization map the region realizes 40 projects worth 327.2 billion tenge with creation of 2264 permanent workplaces .
According to the minister, to create favorable conditions for investors, Kazakhstan unilaterally introduced visa requirements for 19 priority countries (Australia, Hungary, Italy, Monaco, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Great Britain, Aksh, Germany, Finland, France, Switzerland and Japan).
The conference was attended by 20 leading international experts and specialists from Great Britain, France, Germany, Canada, Estonia, the Netherlands, Russia, South Korea, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and other countries.
So, according to him, currently the amount of property declared for legalization in the country has reached 1 trillion tenge, of which 787 billion tenge have been legalized, including property in Kazakhstan - about 500 billion tenge, property abroad - 1 billion tenge, cash - 287 billion tenge.
Negotiations are underway with companies such as auchan, bombardier, ikea.
As of July 1, 2015, the loan portfolio of mnu amounted to 106.6 billion tenge, including legal entities - 2.8 billion tenge (2.7% of the loan portfolio), individuals - 103.7 billion tenge (97.3% of the loan portfolio), "the statement said.
the heads of state approved the budget of the Eurasian Economic Union for 2016, as well as the distribution of responsibilities between the new composition of the board and the members of the board.
Today, the economy of Kazakhstan has great savings in electricity and thanks to the introduction of technical solutions, it is possible to reduce energy consumption from 30% to 70%. kazakhstan 's economy has great potential for energy savings , only thanks to the introduction of technical solutions we can reduce power consumption from 30 to 70 % .
In addition, Aktobinskaya Copper Company LLP will create a deposit with a capacity of 500 thousand tons of ore per year at the Spring-Ostrovchinskoye deposit.
According to him, the water supply facility was built in 15 rural settlements, the water supply of more than 30 thousand rural residents was improved.
The heads of the transport industry of Turkey - the Minister of Transport, Communications and Maritime Transport - spoke about the construction of the Kars-Akhalkalaki railway line, which will be completed in October 2016.
In 2016, it is planned to introduce 185,000 square meters or 131.7% of the same period in 2015, the head of the region said.
In 2015, 4.5 billion tenge was allocated to finance housing construction and engineering and communication infrastructure, including 1.1 billion tenge from the republican budget, and 3.4 billion tenge from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	in 2015 , the volume of construction works was increased by 14.5 % and amounted to 75.9 billion tenge .	2,18
Currently, the ships of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan are located on a leased berth in the village of bautino, 140 km from the naval base.	currently kazakhstan 's ships of the naval forces are stationed at a distance of 140 kilometers from the naval base on a chartered pier in bautino village .	2,18
The production, which in the future plans to provide employment for 21 people, will be fully launched after receiving a state act. this project will open 21 new job , " - the statement reads .
compared to the previous elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, from 1994 to 2012 the share of the population in the parliamentary elections is growing.
In total, 23 orphans and children left without parental care, 65 children from low-income and large families and 12 children with special educational needs were covered during the New Year holidays.
If in 2012 Nұr of 26 women were nominated as deputies of the 127 Otan party, then 63 women were elected to the Akjol Democratic Party from 8 candidates, 6 from 21 candidates were nominated to the Communist Party, and 5 from 18 applicants were nominated to the aul party, "he said.
The head of state instructed to allocate 2016 billion tenge due to the exchange rate difference in the funds of the national fund planned for the implementation of the state program "Nұrly zhol" in 194.5.
According to V. Nechaev, if observers do not participate in the work of the eat for 2 years, then the plenary session has the right to terminate the status of their observer.
in addition, in accordance with the current loan agreement, it was decided to calculate the financing of the project "Rail beam plant with a capacity of 430 thousand tons of rolled stock per year in the city of Aktobe" in tenge.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, the system is designed to equip facilities of military units up to 2,000 m in size, storage areas and other specialized facilities.
According to the winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2010, Christopher Pissarides, the Kazakh government needs to continue creating additional opportunities for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Registration of candidates will last until February 23, and from February 24, all registered candidates for deputies of maslikhats can begin campaigning, "he said.
The volume of investments is still small, we have great opportunities to expand investment cooperation between countries, for example, in 2014 the volume of all trade between the EU and the Republic of Kazakhstan amounted to only 5.8%. we have many opportunities to expand investment cooperation between our countries , for example , the spanish-kazakh volume represented just 5.8 % of the total volume of trade between the eu and kazakhstan in 2014 .
Gulshara Abdykalikova informed the Kazakh side about the main provisions of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" aimed at implementing five institutional reforms.
In 2015, for the first time, the effectiveness of treatment for patients with sensitive tuberculosis improved, in 2014 the figure was 87.6% (standard - 85%).
Within the framework of the project, 18 feeding sites with a total value of 263 million tenge, 5 small dairy and poultry farms, 3 greenhouses, 5 mini-bakeries, a workshop for the production of kumys and other service facilities will be opened in 2016. as part of the project in 2016 kobda district will open 18 feedlots , 5 mini-dairy and poultry farms , 3 greenhouses , 5 mini-bakeries , workshops for production of mare 's milk and other service facilities for a total amount of 263 million tenge .
According to the head of the region, the order for the transport complex jac was invested by a Chinese company in the amount of $5 million.
Also, on simplified production, 8% of the population did not agree with the court act and appealed to the court with a claim for recall, "the judge said.
It is worth noting that the total cost of the project is more than 56 billion tenge, 72.3% of the necessary funds are provided in the form of loans in national currency for up to 10 years.
tleulesova s.y. Following the results of the regular elections held on June 3-4, 2015, he was elected to this position on February 10, 2016. replaced, the report said.
our political and economic ties are very important and favourable.
In total, the mission was representatives of 10 international organizations, starting not only from representatives of couples, but also from ecu and interpol.
Over the past 10 months, the Development Entrepreneurs Support Fund has allocated 1 billion tenge to support small and medium-sized businesses, and 6 thousand women individual entrepreneurs have been financed, "the Secretary of State said.
in accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 37 additional observers from two election observation missions, one international organization and one foreign state on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
After proclamation after September 2015 for sustainable development, and for the State to develop and succeed, it needs good government and quality public service.
The meeting participants agreed to work together on the plan for 2016, coordinate all decisions, implement a special ad hoc meeting to fill in the practical meaningful initiative of the head of state.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat familiarized with the main aspects of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," and also familiarized with the directed tasks.
The Governor also noted that the Ereimentau Brickworks LLP introduced last year produced more than a million bricks worth 23 million tenge and equipped the capital with construction materials.
for the first time in Zhambyl region on November 7, 2011, a regional college of private bailiffs of Zhambyl region was created and passed state registration.	for the first time on november 7 , 2011 zhambyl region established and registered the regional board of the private bailiffs .	2,19
At the same time, according to the speaker, during the temporary absence of the majilis of parliament, work was carried out on 57 bills aimed at implementing anti-crisis measures in accordance with the constitutional powers of the Senate.	also , the majilis conducted a huge work on 57 bills aimed at anti-crisis measures .	2,19
The plan of the nation is 53 steps "100 specific steps."
Tokayev informed his colleague about the modern development of Kazakhstan, the activities of the parliament, as well as the implementation of the presidential plan of the nation "100 steps" to modernize the country.
Recall that Kaspiytaszhol LLP, which produces asphalt concrete, launched production facilities in 2014 on the territory of the Morport Whitewash special economic zone.
in addition, it was instructed to actively implement state programs, including a pilot project to create Zhsk 2020, Brzhk 2020 and small farms.
He also noted that the Iranians are looking forward to the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Tehran in the first half of 2016.
The parties discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the meeting in Dushanbe in March 2015, as well as challenges in such areas as radicalization and terrorism.
he worked for 25 years in the field of corporate financing in central and eastern Europe, the CIS countries, including serving as a managing partner in the deloit company in the CIS.
In 2015, for the needs of the Kazakh army, the plant mastered a new type of production, that is, a special safety barrier for emergency situations.
On September 12, 2012, a tripartite social partnership agreement was concluded with Phmz and Pavlodar Chemical and Mechanical College and the Department of Education of Pavlodar Region.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the NPP, 29 long-term agreements worth more than 10 billion tenge are expected to be signed during this forum.
It should be noted that the meeting of the business club was attended by the heads of 43 diplomatic missions of Kazakhstan, as well as a number of countries: Russia, China, Canada, Belgium, France, Norway, Finland, Indonesia, Bae and others.
R. In his speech, Vasilenko familiarized with the main aspects of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan in the new economic conditions: development, growth, reforms," the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps," noted new opportunities to expand bilateral trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany.
According to the head of the department, more than 2 thousand employers were brought to administrative responsibility for violating the procedure for using foreign labor.
in 2016, Aktobe-Aturau-Astrakhan atodroms will be reconstructed together with the Asian Development Bank (Adb) and the Islamic Development Bank (ib).
200 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget, 8422 sowing units of highly productive hybrid French sugar beet seeds were purchased.
In my speech at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in September 2015, I called on the international community to make a world without nuclear weapons the main goal for humanity in the 21st century.
According to preliminary data, the consolidated volume of oil and gas condensate production in the group of companies kmg in 2015 amounted to 22 million 670 thousand tons.
representatives of 130 nationalities live in Kazakhstan, all of them are created in order to live in peace and harmony, "said Y.Rogovska.
The plan of the nation of 100 concrete steps is being discussed with us, in Russia, with great activity, we want to work closely with you and get an example for our country, "he added.
business has high expectations for the state, creates a predictable macroeconomic environment - 54% of Kazakhstanis support that this should become the main factor in the development of public administration. business holds the state high hopes in creating of a predictable macroeconomic environment - 54 % of kazakhstan 's ceos assure that it should be a priority of the state government .
in the decisive free-style wrestling match, the army athlete dowled niyazbekov with a score of 10:0 defeated the Iranian athlete bahtam ehsanpur.
Thus, in the region over the past 5 years, only within the framework of the industrialization map, several dozen projects in the manufacturing industry are launched annually.
It should be noted that the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Iran was mainly due to the export of Kazakhstani raw materials and raw materials in the amount of $300 million per year.
According to him, this year, on the basis of the Sosnovy Bor sanatorium, it is planned to reconstruct and additionally build a sanatorium and resort complex worth more than 1 billion tenge on the principles of public-private partnership.
because its main goal is to enter the 30 developed countries of the country.
In October 2015, the head of state signed the constitutional law "On Amendments and Amendments to the Constitutional Law" On State Symbols. "
we began to approach our new dream with the creation of a nation plan - 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms.
In Kazakhstan, about 10 million electronic digital signatures (etsk) were issued to work with the e-government portal, of which more than 4 million were recorded on citizen identity cards chips.
in addition, there are 4 ice towns in the capital, which are located in front of the Khan Tent nipple and the akimat, on the Yesil River and in the Students Park.
Kokshetau mineral water under the brand name "turan" has been exported to the Russian Federation for about 15 years - in 2015, 435 thousand liters were exported.
According to the results of 2015, the Office and in order to implement the state youth policy of the region held 793 different events with the participation of 102 thousand young people.
in the daytime it is planned to visit the club by children aged 6 to 18 years, and in the evening - by young people.
most of it, about 2.5 billion tenge, will be allocated by Kazagrofinance joint-stock company, another 1 billion tenge - private funds.
Almaty businessmen provide 43% of the city's income, which is 20% of the country's GDP.
Information on the implementation of the decision of the CIS Council of Heads of State on the proposals of the Republic of Kazakhstan of October 16, 2015 was heard outside the agenda.
Modernization and reconstruction of the pump will be completed at the end of 2017, as a result, the volume of oil processing will increase from 5 million to 6 million per year.
The Pioneer sanatorium, operating throughout the year, was opened at an altitude of 1970 m above the sea and 25 km from alma-ata at the old Almatau ski base.
Over the past 17 years, the party, carefully fulfilling its duties, has fulfilled its platform in the past elections.
In general, despite the fact that we have been partners for more than 20 years, its peak has been in recent years.
Last year, the network of emergency schools decreased by 67 and in 2016 it is planned to complete the construction of another 69 schools, "the head of the department said.
This document is developed taking into account the main directions of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" within the framework of five institutional reforms.
first.
In 2015, the effectiveness of treatment for the first time with sensitive tuberculosis improved and amounted to 87.6%, compared to 86.4% in 2014 (WHO standard - 85%).
The current composition of deputies has prepared a legislative basis for the implementation of the nation's plan - a large-scale program to modernize the country "100 concrete steps," said K. Yelubaev.
The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan informed the participants on the holding of the high-level forum "Religions for Peace" at the UN headquarters in New York on May 6, 2016.
Since this year, the head of state has instructed to increase and ensure by 25 percent the amount of disability benefits and in case of loss of the breadwinner.
secondly, we adopted the state program of infrastructure development "Nұrly zhol."
The importance of the project is that in January of this year an conference was held in Paris with the participation of 42 ministries of the countries, where we discussed issues of employment. the importance of this project lies in the fact that in january this year paris has held a conference with participation of the ministers from 42 countries , and we have discussed the questions of employment .
In 2018, the infrastructure for the Plant for the Production of Mineral Dressings of the Zhambyl Region Eurochem Fertilizer LLP will be built, 11.1 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes.
In his speech, the Vice Minister noted that at the end of 2015, 8.9 million square meters of housing, or 119% by 2014, were commissioned.
analysis showed that Kazakhstan has 180 million hectares of grazing land and borders two of the ten largest countries in the world - Russia and China, which import beef.
by supporting our reforms in such a difficult period, they have enabled us to reach $9 billion in financial resources.
The amount of the loan issued through the microfinance organization is up to KZT15 million in the amount of 7% per annum with a period of up to 36 months.
In February 2015, at a meeting of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty organization in Vienna, Kazakhstan and Japan were elected co-chairs of the conference in the period 2015-2017.
A total of 59 legislative acts have been adopted, including 4 constitutional laws, 3 codes, 14 independent laws and 38 laws providing for amendments and additions to existing laws.
Taking into account the situation in the global economy, in connection with the impact of the situation in commodity markets on the Kazakh sectors of the economy for 10 months of this year, the government clarified macroeconomic indicators for 2015.
In 2016, meat production is expected to increase as a result of the launch of a large project - a poultry farm for the production of broiler meat.
before that, a metro ticket cost 80 tenge, and now it's easy, "travel for beneficiaries decreased by 50%.
the manufacturing industry occupies 83% of the total production in the region, of which 53% is food production, 20% is tobacco production, another 9.2% is production of building materials.
Also, a plant for the production of aluminum of Centrpast ns LLP with a capacity of 14.4 thousand tons of products per year worth 775 million tenge will be built in the Shortandy district.
- Ivan Miklos, former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of the Slovak Republic (2002-2006, 2010-2012);
outstanding representatives of our literature and art, masters of sports, businessmen and journalists (13 people in total) received membership tickets from the first deputy chairman of the party.
The group of Kazakhstani engineering companies is represented by 20 enterprises, which will present 42 pieces of equipment to the exhibition participants, as well as 95 pieces of military and civilian products.
It should be noted that as part of the reconstruction project of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor, work is underway on the Almat-Khorgos section (i category road with 4-lane traffic and cement concrete pavement).
To fulfill the needs of the country's economy and provide the economy with high-quality personnel, 10 partner colleges were selected, "he said.
Also in 2016, at the expense of credit funds, modernization of water supply facilities of Aktobe city in the amount of 1.2 billion tenge in 2017 - 1.4 billion tenge, in 2018 - 1.1 billion tenge.
in addition, according to him, 298 km of heat, water and sanitation networks will be built and reconstructed through a mechanism of budget lending and subsidies.
It is worth noting that microcredit organizations that have shown high results will be provided with information tools and grants in the amount of 50 thousand dollars.
The Committee also considered a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol Amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Lease of a Serum Test Site between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Russian Federation of 18 October 1996.
Since the beginning of implementation of the state program "Nrla zhol" more than 200 thousand jobs are created and provided with housing of 11,385 families.
of which 70% or more than 10 million tons were mined in group development projects, that is, 7 million tons of ore at the bozshakol deposit, and 3 million tons of oxidized ores at the aktogai deposit.
According to article 8, the state provides free technical and vocational education for citizens, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan said in a statement.
Also, the Iranian company Solari plans to build a beam power station with a capacity of 50 MW in the Kapchagai district of Almaty region.
In 2016, it is planned to bring the centralized water supply of cities to 97.7%, villages to 48% and complete the reconstruction of 4 facilities.
members of parliament, members of government, participants of today's meeting in accordance with Article 59 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan declare open the first session of the VI convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
The Government of Kazakhstan implements the industrialization program in 6 priority sectors: chemistry, petrochemistry, production of building materials, transportation, metallurgy, food production.
During the event, about 20 employers presented vacancies from the services sector, educational institutions, health organizations, construction companies, hotels, fleets, and internal affairs bodies.
A striking example of effective cooperation is the Kazakhstan Way exit exhibition, held in 2015 in St. Petersburg, designed to demonstrate the achievements of Kazakhstan achieved under the unique leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In the same year, Kazakhinstrakh, beeline Kazakhstan and Oila magazine were included in the application for support.
It is worth noting that negotiations on the export of meat to the united Arab emirate were conducted in more than 5 months.
Thus, as of March 4, 2016, the Central Election Commission accredited 308 observers from missions of two international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis), one international organization (organization of Islamic cooperation) and nine foreign states, he said.
Recall that today the head of state in his message to the people of Kazakhstan noted that from 2017, young people will receive vocational education for free.
About $20 billion - 14 percent - was allocated to support employment, repair and construction of roads, landscaping cities and villages.
The merger of enterprises was carried out in 2015, as a result of which the Ore Construction LLP and the Road-service LLP were merged into Gorstroyservice LLP, and is carried out according to a combination of restructuring of construction companies.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that after the successful holding of EXPO-2015 in Milan, Italy's participation in the exhibition in the capital in 2017 will be one of the most important.
According to Atameken, the coordinating council held 12 retreats over the year, during which the strongest specialists of the center for supporting entrepreneurs held training seminars for 245 beginning professions.
most exports, 52% are from crude oil and gas, 41% from natural uranium, local products - rice and fish - 4 and 2% from exports.
Industrial production volume in January-February 2016. in current prices amounted to 2604.1 billion tenge, which is 0.3% less than in January-February 2015.
in Kostanay, 2 projects were approved - a bestselling bureau and galvanic laying on any metal surface.
According to Kairat Karibaev, a total of 22 bridges, 15 overpasses, 643 water pipelines, 11 transport interchanges were built during the construction.
The standard was approved in 2009 by the European Standards Committee, and in 2011 certification of contact centers became possible in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and other CIS countries.	the standard was approved by the european committee in 2009 , and in 2011 it appeared in russia , ukraine , kazakhstan and other cis countries .	2,24
he noted that due to external and internal challenges, Kazakhstan is implementing a plan for the nation of 100 concrete steps, "which defines a new model of the economy.
The head of state noted that today 15 member countries of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation are under pressure from international terrorists, which is why millions of Muslims are forced to become refugees looking for a comfortable life in different parts of the world.
only deposits on deposits opened in Zhilstroysberbank until August 18, 2015.
In this regard, there is considerable merit in the legislative authorities, which have adopted 59 bills on the modernization of the country.
According to the results of the joint venture, the company processed 3,227 thousand tons of milk, produced 225.6 tons of cheese, 45.2 tons of garlic, 464.7 tons of ultra-pasteurized milk.
The bilateral memorandum defines three main areas of joint action: these are the winter games of students in 2017 at the almaty invest 2016 investment forum in Almaty and the development of the green economy at the investment forum.
in terms of paired human development, Kazakhstan improved its indicator by 14 positions in the past year alone and rose to 56th place among 190 countries of the world.	in the un human development index , kazakhstan improved its positions in 14 indicators having gained the 56th position among 190 countries .	2,24
Since the beginning of the year, the local police of Astana fined more than 1000 drivers for incorrect parking.	in addition , since the beginning of the year the inspectors of the local police department of internal affairs fined more than 1000 drivers .	2,24
On May 24, the President of Kazakhstan within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum will hold a meeting with the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde, who will visit the country to participate in the regional conference of the International Monetary Fund.	on may 24 , president of kazakhstan will hold a meeting with director of the international monetary fund , christine lagarde .	2,24
in the regional, capital and Almaty city maslikhats - 324 people; district maslikhats - 2015 people; urban maslikhats - 526 people.	of them , 324 people apply for the post of the deputies of the regional maslikhats and cities of astana and almaty , 2015 people - district and 526 - city .	2,24
A. Khamsa Sarakenov filed documents in Malay as a Kazakh path - 2050, "" - a path to the future, a brochure "100 concrete steps."
I note that in western Australia there are about 15 thousand small junior companies that are engaged in geological exploration.
To date, we are processing for industrial construction, when the annual protection of the livestock will be 160 thousand heads.
In 2015, to eliminate the shortage of places in preschool organizations of the capital, 10 kindergartens were commissioned, including two kindergartens were opened at the expense of the museum.
Within the framework of the steam agenda in the field of sustainable development until 2030, the possibility of developing partnership relations between Kazakhstan and African countries was considered.
In connection with the expo 2017, billion tenge will be allocated for the timely completion of the construction of the terminal at the airport of Astana and other construction work.
With the activities of the international capital financial center, a 5-year special visa regime for citizens entering the territory of Kazakhstan will be introduced.
The Austrian delegation arrived to discuss the expansion of trade and economic cooperation with Kazakhstan and familiarize itself with the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
In order to increase the activity of attracting investment in the country's economy, a comprehensive plan will be developed in February 2016 to improve the investment climate in accordance with OECD standards. in order to attract investments the country will adopt the detailed plan in february 2016 providing measures to improve the investment climate in accordance with oecd standards .
As of December 1, 2015, kaz minerals began production of cathode copper from oxidized ore at the Aktogai deposit, by the end of the year the volume of cathode copper produced amounted to 0.4 thousand tons.	december 1 , 2015 kaz minerals group began production of copper cathodes from oxide ore at aktogay deposite , by the end of the year the volume of copper cathodes were produced 0.4 thousand tons .	2,25
In addition, since April, more than 3 thousand trees have been planted in the medeu microdistrict, the "blue crane," on the eastern bypass road and other sections.
This project was implemented by the national multimedia operator ktz express and the company china railway international multimedia transport co ltd (crimt).
One of the areas of such support is subsidizing loans to start-up entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the capital with an interest rate of no more than 16%.
In connection with the decision of the Mayor of Astana of October 26, 2015, 26 new polling stations were created and members of the election commissions of this polling station were elected at the session of the city maslikhat. by the decision of the mayor of astana on october 26 , 2015 , 26 new polling stations were created and during the session of the maslikhat of the city the members of the precinct election commissions of were elected .
In May 2014, at the initiative of the head of state, a memorandum of partnership was signed to strengthen cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Bank. in may 2014 , in order to strengthen cooperation between kazakhstan and the world bank , framework partnership agreement was signed .
important economic and political issues were discussed at the meeting.
During the implementation of the project, the total volume of cargo flow will increase 2.5 times and amount to 33 million tons per year.
According to him, in order to radically change the tax system, a consolidated draft tax and customs code will be submitted to parliament by September 1, 2016.
According to the Minister, the head of state outlined the priorities of the country's investment policy in terms of "100 concrete steps" - this is a further improvement in the business climate and involvement in the manufacturing industry.
By 2030, when the population will reach 1 million 220 thousand inhabitants, the total area of ​ ​ the capital's housing stock should correspond to 37 million square meters.	thus , the housing stock of astana will reach 37 million sq meters with the population of astana being about 1 million 220 thousand ,  s. khoroshun said .
I want to note that the head of state emphasized that if the price of oil is 30 or 20 dollars per barrel, then it is necessary to develop measures. the head of state ordered to develop different action plans in terms of oil price at the level of 30 dollars per barrel and 20 dollars per barrel .
at the regional level, selection was carried out, the central apparatus received 153 applications, the main composition of which is small business - 69 enterprises, medium entrepreneurship - 44, large entrepreneurship - 40 companies, "he said.
In the period from December 2013 to February 2015, he served as director of the department of public-private partnership and special projects "Baiterek."
in particular, the chairman of the board of directors of Jahad-e-Sabz asked to promote the allocation of 100 thousand hectares of cereals.
In my speech at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in September 2015, I called on the international community to make a world without nuclear weapons the main goal for humanity in the 21st century. during the speech at the 70th session of the un general assembly in september 2015 , i urged the international community to make the world without nuclear weapons as the main goal of humanity in the xxi century .
according to him, in step 53 of the "plan of the nation -" 100 specific steps "it is said about changing the conclusions of the antimonopoly service in order to bring them in line with the standards of edu.
According to the document, since 2017, supplier contributions to the fund make up 2% of the average monthly income of the employee, 3% - from 2018, 4% - from 2019, 5% - from 2020.
in this area, istkomtrans LLP, an Iranian railway transportation s.a. with the partner, agreements were reached on the organization of railway freight transportation in the amount of $25 million.
implementation of these projects will reduce lighting costs by 60%, that is, in the city with growth per year by 40.7 million tenge, and in the city of Semey - by 30.8 million tenge.
Kazakhstan is our land.
In the field of space activities in 2015, the pilot-cosmonaut of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aydyn aymbetov flew into space on the Soyuz Tma-18m international spacecraft.
this is a unique body, an institution that exists only in our country, which conducts its competence from 100 ethnic groups, creates 962 ethnic centers.
It will host the opening and closing ceremonies of the Winter Universiade in 2017, as well as figure skating and curling competitions.
It is also a structure of 35 enterprises of the engineering industry in all cities of production of the country, represented in geographical terms.
Recall, the President of Kazakhstan said that from January 1, 2016, wages in the field of health, education and social protection will increase by 40%.
In 2009, a number of important legislative acts were signed - the laws "On individual opportunities for women and men" and "On the prevention of domestic violence."
Recall, the President of Kazakhstan said that from January 1, 2016, wages in the field of health, education and social protection will increase by 40%.
In connection with the professional adaptation of school graduates and college students, pupils of orphanages, 300 excursions to production facilities were organized.
In general, according to special schedules, the food caravan sells almost 800 tons of food to all areas at a cheaper price.
in the global economic crisis, the unity of the people and the plan of the nation are very important - 100 concrete steps, nationwide anti-crisis support.
the commercial part of the fund will be significantly strengthened: 60% of employees will intensify new industries and manage the current portfolio of strategic assets, "he said.
In general, we implement projects - these are 11 kindergartens in the East Kazakhstan region, according to which a contract was signed and according to which we began the first stage of construction. in general , there are some completed projects : 11 kindergartens in east kazakhstan region , the first cycle construction has started , " - he said .
If in the 90s 40% of every third specific population lived poorly, today their level is 3%, "the head of state said.
this is a different format - and very heavy, each performed 3 minutes 20 seconds.
On November 30, 2015, the President of the country published an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan defining a strategy for realizing specific opportunities in a new global reality: growth, reform, development. "
From 2014 until his appointment to the post of Vice Minister of Education and Science, he worked as Director of the Social Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance.
During the reporting period, that is, in 2015, more than 85 thousand square meters were commissioned in Almaty region, 32 thousand square meters in the capital, 8 thousand square meters in Karaganda and more than 25 thousand square meters.
two years ago, the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev published the program "Kazakhstan 2050," aimed at becoming one of the 30 most developed states until the middle of the twenty-first century.
Also, according to the chairman of the board of the NPP, the proposal to increase the subsidized interest rate to 16% was supported.
According to the Vice Minister, 64.9 thousand heads of livestock were introduced in the direction of creating breeding reproducers, which is 93% of the plan.
In this regard, the expert noted that the construction of the fourth oil refinery in the next 15 years does not make sense.
production of the plant consists of ingots and ingots of various diameters measuring 12 kg, 100 g, 250 g, 500 g and 1000 g, issued to the national bank.
In March 2016, proposals will be made to provide additional targeted assistance to low-income families in the event of a deterioration in the socio-economic situation in the country.
Within the framework of the event, materials on Kazakhstan in English were presented, including the program "Nұrly zhol," the national plan "100 concrete steps," as well as the "road indicator for American businessmen in Kazakhstan."
During the 2017 Winter Universiade, we are always ready to prepare a mountain track and share our experience in safety during sports competitions, "said the honorary ambassador of Kazakhstan in the Lyon city of Hervé Bronner.
Recall, on February 22, 2016, the first meeting of the International Council at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan was chaired by the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
today in the announcement of the modernization policy, adoption of the national plan - "100 concrete steps" of the president, Kazakhstan really has such an opportunity.
Today, the share of small and medium-sized businesses in the gross regional product of the region is a little more than 22 percent.
In 2015, the foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the EU for the processing of agricultural products amounted to 635.9 million US dollars.
To date, 42 peasant farms have been grouped to create a "regional dairy cluster" in the Merken district and an agricultural production cooperative "commercial products" has been created.
During this time, we were able to receive 60 people, and 80-90% of them resolved the issues of visitors on the spot.
the released funds - this is about 45 billion tenge - will be involved in the reimbursement of costs for agricultural products, as well as for the purchase of agricultural equipment, "he said.
Given the non-financial support of SMEs, I want to note that we have 16 branches and 18 business reception centers.
to carry out radical repairs of highways, it is planned to deliver more than 180 thousand new reinforced concrete sleepers and their fasteners.
Currently in Aktobe region on the territory of 200 hectares there is an industrial zone and entrepreneurs, as well as foreign entrepreneurs can work under favorable conditions, "the akim said.
As the head of the city noted, the construction of housing for the low-income population in 2015 increased 1.7 times.
In addition, at the meeting of the two departments in the city of aktobe, the results of the pest control work carried out in 2015 in Kazakhstan were demonstrated.
As a result, the second five-year plan of the industrialization map of Almaty included 55 projects worth 120.3 billion tenge and created 9.9 thousand jobs.
the organization combined 4 rmk in its structure - the "population service center," the research and production center of the land cadastre, the "real estate center" and the "state center for the payment of pensions."
As part of the social support of the population in transition periods, I instruct the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to develop a new employment roadmap, which we created in 2007-2009, "the head of state said.
Agricultural producers of akmola, diamond, aktobe, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Karaganda, Kostanay, North and South Kazakhstan regions in the amount of more than 20 billion tenge have been financed to carry out spring field work.
During the visit of the head of state to Tehran on April 11, 2016, a long-term program was adopted to develop the transport and logistics potential of the Silk Road route together with Iran.
Currently in the EU named after L.N. More than 168 thousand students study in 16 specialties that undergo multi-level training.
the number of people registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of March 2016 amounted to 69 thousand people or 0.8% of the economically active population.
According to the head of the new enterprise, investors are currently considering expanding the greenhouse complex to 30 hectares.
In just eight days in Karaganda and East Kazakhstan regions provided medical and advisory and diagnostic assistance to 2638 citizens, "said A.Alpeisov.
Kazakh scientists have participated in the work since 1956: initially as part of the chairmen of the USSR, and since 1992 - as representatives of independent Kazakhstan, "he added.
The protocol amending the agreement of April 11, 2013 provides for the transfer of the railway station from the mercer to the chaldovar station. the protocol amending the agreement , signed on 11 april 2013 , provides the transfer of the railway crossing point from the merke station to the chaldovar station .
81,128 applications (declarations) for legalization of immovable property totaling 824.7 billion tenge were received by the commission under local executive bodies on legalization of property in Kazakhstan.
On legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan, the commission under local executive bodies received 82,660 applications (declarations) for the legalization of real estate totaling 836.2 billion tenge.
On legalization of property in the territory of Kazakhstan, the commission under local executive bodies received 82,912 applications (declarations) for the legalization of real estate totaling 838.1 billion tenge.
83,505 applications (declarations) for legalization of immovable property totaling 846.4 billion tenge were received by the commission under local executive bodies on legalization of property in Kazakhstan.
Thus, in the President's message to the people of November 2015, 30, "Kazakhstan is in a new global reality: growth, reforms, development," a national action plan and a plan of anti-crisis measures, 2016-2018 national bank. ensuring economic and social stability.
In addition, as part of the development of the procurement system and local content, from August 1, 2014, with the support of Atameken NPP, 750 multidisciplinary agreements were concluded with domestic manufacturers in the amount of more than 334 billion tenge.
In response to the emerging crisis, on behalf of the head of state, in 2015, work began on the implementation of the state infrastructure program "Nұrly zhol." dossiers.
Almaty is a leading educational center, where 40% of the country's universities are concentrated.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the chevron company has paid $113 billion to the budget since its service in the country, and is also implementing a number of large-scale projects aimed at improving social infrastructure.
About 2 thousand athletes from 55 countries of the world are planned to take part in competitions in 12 sports at 8 sports facilities.
To work together with metropolitan doctors and treat patients, it is planned to create a Korean medical center on the basis of city hospital No. 1.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that over the past 10 years, childbirth benefits have increased 6.3 times, childcare benefits up to one year - 4 times.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 116 representatives of foreign media from 28 states as of March 2, 2016.
- From January 1, 2016, Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to increase wages in the field of health care to 28%, education - to 29%, social protection - to 40%.
kaznex invest German, "" carlo moreska, "" kmk investment, "" Chinese "shaanhi jing shangyu group co ltd," airon green energy turbines, "as well as the Russian enterprise" pipeline metallurgical company. "
Ulba Metallurgical Plant will have only 100 tons of low enriched uranium, "- said E. batyrbekov.
I think that 5 institutional reforms and legislation adopted last year will open up economic and social innovations in Kazakhstan: updating the elite, updating government bodies, "the expert said.
In this regard, for the acquisition of equipment by the ministry this year it is planned to subsidize agricultural equipment and reimburse costs up to 25% of the cost, "he said.
We plan to implement 100 projects aimed at improving energy efficiency with the involvement of 20 billion tenge of investments, and present them at EXPO-2017, "the minister said.
We look with great confidence at the fact that in the future Kazakhstan will be among the 30 developed countries, and the Turkish state and the whole world will become an example. "
The Minister of National Economy reported on the results of the country's socio-economic development for 2015 and plans for the current year. Dossayev, Minister of Finance B. Sultanov.
The CEC also decided to schedule the next election of deputies of maslikhats of all levels on March 20, 2016.
The European Commissioner signed memoranda of intent on delivery of 7 es-125 helicopters, 18 es-130 helicopters to Kazmedair LLP to Kazakhstan engineering in the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region.
In 2016, the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan established the time of public PPP services, which is 4.7 billion tenge, of which 2.7 billion tenge was accepted in February. it should be noted that for 2016 the ministry of national economy of kazakhstan has defined the limit of state obligations on the ppp projects in the amount of 4.7 billion tenge , of which 2.7 billion tenge is planned to take in february in the case of the signing of the concession agreement .
To date, 1,546 memoranda have been signed in the region to stabilize production processes, preserve jobs and employ workers.
According to the director of the branch, if the entrepreneur's project is implemented in small and single-industry towns or villages, the subsidy rate will be 10%.
the second five-year plan of industrialization included 16 investment projects, the total investment volume of which amounted to 322 billion tenge, which is 3.2 thousand jobs. The second five-year plan of the industrialization map included 16 investment projects with a total investment of 322 billion tenge creating more than than 3.2 thousand jobs.
Including for the repair of 550 sites for garbage collection for 1.1 billion tenge and the commissioning of an additional 400 sites, the acquisition of 3.5 thousand European containers.
During the visit of the head of state to Paris in 2015, an agreement was reached on benefits and privileges for official participants of the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital. in terms of the visit of the head of state in paris in 2015 , an agreement on privileges and preferences for official participants of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 was signed .
of which 44 are ecu/diakb observers, 75 are from the parliamentary ecu assembly, 293 are observers of the CIS mission, 9 are from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, 3 are from the organization of Islamic cooperation, 7 are from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, 10 are from foreign states, he said.
However, in 2001, the company suffered losses, the condition of the team was catastrophic, since there was bankruptcy ahead.
The Kazakh company Kaztekhnologii, with the support of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, has concluded 2 contracts with the PRC.
By age, 40% of them are pensioners, and the average age of the population is 30 years, that is, misunderstanding, and this will lead to a global crisis that is heating Kazakhstan, "he said.
The Islamic Republic of Iran's first indicator of bilateral cooperation was long-term contract commerce for the supply of beef and lamb in the amount of $30 million. the first result of the bilateral cooperation with iran after the lifting of sanctions has become a long-term commercial contract for the supply of beef and mutton in the amount of 30 million dollars .
Recall, on January 20, 2016, after the election was appointed by the chairman of the Central Election Commission, invitations were sent to the first chairmen of the central election bodies of 18 states.
The people of Kazakhstan celebrate one of the most important holidays - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan, the holiday began to be celebrated in 1996 by decree of the head of state.	the holiday is celebrated since 1996 , according to the decree of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .	2,30
the freed form of state property of secondary school No. 3 of the village of Krasnoye was granted to the head of Vavu Boom LLP with the right to use the pengen sugar.
It is planned to serve about 20 stations in the Karaganda region; since February 29, stopping points have been operating in the village of Atasu, Zhanaarkinsky district.
In addition, as part of the instructions given by you, companies such as Kazkhrom, Russian Copper Company and Voskhod-Oriel have increased the wages of their employees by 10-15% since January 1.
Taking into account the forecast of gross domestic product growth, the revenues of the national budget in 2016 are estimated at 3,365,3 billion tenge, which is 300 billion tenge lower than the approved plan, "the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan informed.
According to this agreement, the benefits will come into force after the ratification of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on March 1, 2016 and will be valid until December 31, 2017, "he explained.
This year, the implementation of five large-scale institutional reforms aimed at bringing Kazakhstan to the 30 most developed countries of the world began.
According to the executive director of the Coalition of Green Economy and Development g-global Askhat Suleimenov, this year the organizers plan to train more than 2 thousand Kazakhstani women in green entrepreneurship.
During a working trip to the 70th garrison, the commander-in-chief of the akkom checked the progress of the reorganization of the military unit of 78639.
among these areas is the implementation of the national plan "100 concrete steps" for the implementation of 5 institutional reforms.
At the same time, he noted that if the entrepreneur's project is implemented in the microdistrict, then in single-industry towns and villages - the subsidy is 10%.
As previously reported, on March 12 of this year, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the State Center for the Payment of Pensions, Kazpost JSC and the Public Service Center RGP.
In turn, M. Rutte noted that taking into account the "100 concrete steps" implemented by Kazakhstan, especially aimed at diversifying the economy, there is a wide range of opportunities for cooperation.
14% of state revenues or about 20 billion tenge was spent on employment: repair work, construction, improvement of cities and villages.
Due to the comprehensive multifaceted work of government bodies, Kazakhstan reached 42nd place in the ranking of the global competitiveness index among 140 countries of the world.
Also, under the German society, young children develop, this is a preschool institution "prodigy," where 500 people a day study in various courses.
Recall that at the first meeting the issue of dividing all members of the commission into 4 groups was discussed.
The average price for January-October was $54 per barrel, as of November 23, the price of brent crude oil fell to $44 per barrel.
In total, more than 180 thousand SMEs are registered in Almaty, where more than 580 thousand people work.
A list of 1000 places formed by entrepreneurs can be seen on the official website of the Department of Architecture and Urban Planning of Astana.
Member of the CEC of Kazakhstan M. Sarsembayev informed representatives of the garden about the accreditation of 454 observers of international organizations and foreign states on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Central Election Commission as of March 11, 2016.
The Republican Federation sent its judges to the tournament - joyful nadirs (judge of the national category of the Republic of Kazakhstan, judicial experience of 11 years, judicial service at the championships and cups of the Republic of Kazakhstan) and darkhan zholomanov (judge of the first category, judge of the championship of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international tournament).
It is planned to implement 8 projects for the processing of agricultural products, "said E. Sultanov.
Within the program "Nrla zhol" 47 billion tenges will be allocated for construction of housing and more than 3000 apartments are built.
Currently, we are implementing the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation, which is associated with all the global reforms that we carried out in the 90s, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The period of implementation of 5 institutional reforms of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation began during the financial crisis.
In general, the volume of lending amounted to 41 billion tenge, which made it possible to create and save more than 3 thousand jobs, "the akim said.
to date, according to the Nұrly zhol program, 264 km of roads from Kapchagay to Almaty, from Almaty to Kapchagay have been built.
The implementation of 5 institutional reforms of the head of state is aimed at creating a country of "100 concrete steps."
At a distance of 10 meters, the shooter scored 624.4 points, exceeding the previous result at the 2015 World Cup in Azerbaijan.
for professional achievements: the best leader "- 12 leaders," the best specialist "- 14 specialties," the best by profession "- 22 best workers in the industry," the statement said.
As an official document of the 70th session of the UN General Assembly, it is assigned registration number a/70/818 and as an official document of the UN Security Council is assigned registration number c/2016/317.
in general, 14 thousand square meters of housing for 814 thousand apartments will be built within 2 years with funds allocated on behalf of the Head of State.
thanks to the use of domestic raw materials in production, the Kazakhstani nature of products is 90% and strengthens the competitiveness of the plant.
It should be noted that for the period from 2005 to 2015, the total inflow of direct investments from Bulgaria to Kazakhstan amounted to 26.7 million US dollars.
The forum is attended by the first leaders and representatives of the ministries of employment, labor and social security of 42 countries.
the share of productive employees of the total number of self-employed amounted to 77.6% (in 2014 - 70.5%), unsuccessful employees - 22.4% (in 2014 - 29.5%).
At the opening of the forum, the head of the region noted that in the education sector of the country 65% are women, in health care - 75%, in the management corps - 50%.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the Governor's Office and the Development Fund will allocate 2 billion tenge (1 billion tenge each) for the implementation of a new program to support startup projects in the field of shopping.
a regulatory framework has been created, laws have been adopted, work is underway to implement 5 institutional reforms, "he said.
This document is developed taking into account the main directions of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" within the framework of five institutional reforms.
It is expected to receive additional resources for 17 facilities, including 103 tons of gold, 1 million tons of copper and 3.3 million tons of polymetal.
The idea of ​ ​ creating a package of stamps called mecca, approved by silver, arose in 2006 as a continuation and development of the project "gold and silver kurans."
Recall that the Shah visited Kazakhstan on May 15-16, 2016 at the 72nd session of ESCAP in Bancong.
And on March 22, the "Son's Day" will host the main festive events, such as kokpar, wrestling, virginity, competitions "Best Yurt" and various competitions.
Recall that in November 2015, the right to distribute lada cars in the Central Asian states received a "car bipec - Asia auto."
The initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan in this area caused a global breakthrough at the summit on nuclear security, which was held in Washington from March 31 to April 1, 2016.
Currently, specific projects are being implemented to open workshops for the production of 2 tons of milk per day (butter, cheese, cheese).
In 2010, a breakthrough project was implemented - Vasilkovsky mining and processing plant of gold in the form of wood casting with a capacity of 12.5 tons.
Despite the fact that investments in the economy of the region in 2015 amounted to less than 16% compared to last year, in 2016 we will increase the growth rate.	according to the governor , despite the fact that in 2015 it was invested 16 % less than in the previous year , the region intends to increase the growth rate in 2016 .	2,32
current deputies have created a legislative foundation for the implementation of the large-scale program "Plan of the Nation 100 Concrete Steps."
Recall, on June 29, 2015 in Beijing, representatives of 57 founding countries of the bank, including Kazakhstan, signed these articles of the agreement.
We plan to bring the volume of exports to 50-60% by the end of 2016 through the Russian trading network.
Within an hour you can talk with 20 employers, within one day employers collect hundreds of resumes.
the capacity of the enterprise is more than 50 thousand field lamps per year, more than 50 thousand household lamps and more than 10 thousand searchlights.
N.Nazarbayev noted that Karatau Mining and Processing Plant has always been a strategic project, the cost of which exceeds about 1 billion dollars.
According to the minister, in recent years, measures have been taken to create more than 3 thousand MW of energy companies in the republic.
Ecu includes 1 billion people from Vancouver to Vladivostok, which differ in languages, culture, religions. the osce includes countries with population of over 1 billion people with different languages and cultures , and religions .
in general, projects were implemented - these are 11 kindergartens in the East Kazakhstan region, according to which a contract was signed, according to which the first stage of construction began.
The project is implemented within the framework of the Shymkent City Development Concept until 2020, presented last year and supported by Akim Yuko B. Atamkulov.
open government in Kazakhstan. 100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms.
for military valor, Ivan Pavlovich was awarded the Order of the Patriotic War of the 2nd degree and the medal "For the victory over Japan," as well as the medals "Admiral Kuznetsov" and "George Zhukov."
Last year, we answered more than 320 thousand questions about Etsk, "said Akmaral Ergaliyev, head of the methodology department of National Information Technologies JSC.
It is planned that in 2016 the ball will be held in the framework of the open sky, and in 2017 - in the zone of the international exhibition Expo-2017.
During the meeting, the success of the reorganization of the four rmks "mkko," "zhergno" and "zhmo," which are part of the state corporation "government for citizens," which included more than 20 thousand employees in a single structure, was discussed.
in addition, the Finnish company tikkurila reinvested products in the expansion of paint production and increased its annual capacity by 500 thousand liters, and also created 20 new jobs.
Recall that on the basis of Astana-nan LLP last year, a project for the production of pesticides for water-dispersible granules worth 200 million tenge was successfully implemented.
in this regard, the lists are submitted to the election commissions by 28 February for voter consultation in accordance with the calendar plan approved by us.
envelopes not more than 3 cm thick and not more than a4 thick in paper form are accepted as a package.
According to Musatayev, trade over two years showed a significant increase - 2010 and 2011 are associated with tightening customs controls and the absence of administrative barriers at the border.
In addition, in the summer of this year, 80 million tenge is provided for the repair of two secondary schools in the villages of Ongar and Dong, and the current repair of the roadway between the villages of Gorki and Sary will also be carried out.
the total share of value added in the small and medium-sized business sector reaches 62% of the total city economy.
As the Majilisman noted, within 10 days the work of all state bodies will be based on the system schedule, from 2016 it will contribute to the implementation of the message.
Recall, on December 14, 2015, a memorandum of understanding was signed, and on January 29 of this year, the main conditions of the parties (therm sheet) were agreed with the participation of the Prime Ministers of Kazakhstan and China.
It is worth noting that in 2013 Kazakhstan contributed to the negotiation process by providing a platform for negotiations in Almaty.
A. Zhudebaev noted that the orchestra named after Kurmangazy is "a unique orchestra with an 82-year history of Kazakh art, which founded it akhmet zhubanov."
The group of Kazakhstani engineering companies is represented by 20 enterprises, which will present 42 pieces of equipment to the exhibition participants, as well as 95 pieces of military and civilian products.
48 participants took part in the competition, in particular, from 7 schools and 10 educational institutions of technical and vocational education in 4 districts, 4 cities of the region.
In an expanded plan, poverty, hunger and epidemics can be eliminated, we intend to achieve this goal by 2030. it is also important to eradicate poverty , hunger and diseases , as stated in sustainable development goals up to 2030 .
The Governor's Office of the region provides funds for microcredit in the amount of 288 million tenge, "said Acting Akim of Mangistau region Sainykin Aldashev.
As part of the contract, until August of this year, local entrepreneurs will supply 60 thousand cattle.
Natural population growth in January-February 2015 3.1 thousand people, or 7.6%, which amounted to 43.9 (40.8) thousand people.
These are 14 international pavilions, a corporate pavilion, the office of the organizers of the exhibition, the congress office, the congress center, the national day pavilion, the energy hall, reports k.kelimbetov.
For 20 years, having retired as the head of the kindergarten, he opened a private kindergarten thanks to state support.
In West Kazakhstan region, an agreement was signed on subsidizing 471 projects totaling 50.2 billion tenge through the program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
The World Bank called Kazakhstan the state that carried out the largest number of reforms, in seven out of ten areas 19 reforms were carried out.
Currently, there are 543 preschool institutions in the region, including 280 kindergartens and 263 mini-centers, which are designed for more than 45 thousand children.
3) publish a moratorium on granting individuals and legal entities the right to private ownership of agricultural land under state ownership.
according to the experience of foreign partners, through similar processes of automation and production control, the company saves up to 15% of the budget. "
In 2017, the Republic of Kazakhstan decided to hold a regular meeting of defense ministers of the Shu member states.
According to A. Zhilkin, in accordance with the state program "energy conservation and energy efficiency improvement in the Astrakhan region until 2020," several solar power plants are being created in the region.
The volume of loans of small businesses in January-April 2016 amounted to 358.2 billion tenge or 50% of all loans in Kazakhstan.
At the meeting, Governor of the region congratulated Jakparkul on the silver prize won recently at the World Weightlifting Championships among adults and women in American Houston, and handed over a financial certificate in the amount of 4 million tenge.
Over 25 years of independence, Kazakhstan has achieved great success, since independence is carried out not only in words, but also in deeds. for 25 years of independence kazakhstan has achieved a great success , because the independence is not only in words but in concrete actions .
for example, the number of disclosures of crimes in the wake of the incident by traffic police units (by 28.5%, from 5950 to 7648) and district inspectors (by 24%, from 7654 to 9492) tripled.
today, according to the execution of the budget separately with each document, we can say that this year the indicator will be closer than 100%. due to the fact that we have practiced with every administrator of the budget programs , we can already ascertain that the implementation rate this year will be very close to 100 % .
according to him, the results of strategic planning and titanic work after 25 years inspire optimism and confidence in the correctness of the chosen path.
the Karaganda silicon plant was commissioned in 2010, but due to financial difficulties, production work ceased in 2013. karaganda silicon plant was commissioned in 2010 , due to financial difficulties in 2013 , production was halted .
Sh. Nuryshev noted that like the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," economic reforms are being carried out, and invited wool to take part in the expo 2017.
According to him, monitoring includes 48 republican newspapers, 15 magazines, 16 republican television channels, 12 radio channels, 174 regional newspapers, 31 regional television channels, as well as 162 most popular socio-political Internet resources.
In order to organize services along the Samara-Shymkent highway, it is planned to build 8 campsites and 4 gas filling stations. in order to provide services along the route it is planned to construct 8 campsites and 4 gas-filling stations .
to date, the volume of transit from Russian territory to China is 7 million tons in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement between Kazakhstan and Russia. nowadays the volume of oil supplied from the russian territory to china is 7 million tons in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement between kazakhstan and russia .
The ratification of the letter, drawn up in London on 14 October 2005, would enhance practical cooperation with foreign States in the fight against international terrorism.
all 5 steps: the court of first instance, the appellate court, cassation, control, re-control, it took them a long time.
The international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10, 2017, where more than 100 countries and international organizations and more than 2-3 million visitors are planned to participate.
For the implementation of business projects created by the primary entrepreneurs of the region, the state allocated grants of up to 300 thousand 3 million tenge.
training on peacekeeping training for our soldiers will last until December 11, "said Lieutenant Colonel Bakytzhan Zhetis, head of the peacekeeping operations center.
in the grain industry - 521 projects worth 113.6 billion tenge, non-metallic mineral products - 239 projects worth 45.2 billion tenge, metallurgy and mechanical engineering - 46.5 billion tenge.
they will provide permanent jobs for 500 people and will develop so as not to stop there.
In addition, textile production in South Kazakhstan region attracted 1.9 million tenge and provided 50 jobs.
today, 446 pupils of the republican military school named after the sagadat army general nurmagambetov received a new gadget.
If we talk about the implementation of the industrialization program, then 94 projects were included in the industrialization map, 21 of which concern foreign capital. the industrialization map included 94 projects , of them 21 projects were with participation of the foreign capital .
it's simple, "he said.
The decision to launch the c5 + 1 platform was made following a meeting of the leadership of the foreign ministries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, which took place on November 1, 2015 in Samarkand.
It was also stated that the general assembly of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation on Food Security will be held in the capital from April 26 to 28, 2016.
the enterprise also received support in the form of subsidies, that is, 7% of the 14% loan rate is reimbursed by the state.
Today, 7 documents have been signed aimed at the further development of car production, including the relevant documents included in the fiatgroup: iveco, jac motors and peugeot-citroen.
During the formation of the republican budget for 2017-2019 in April-August 2016, all budget programs will be tested to optimize budget expenditures, "said E. Dosaev.
In general, according to A.Biakhmetov, products worth 1.6 billion tenge have been produced on the industrialization map since 2010, including 37.3 billion tenge for 3 months of 2016.
Kazakhstan is a global country. kazakhstan - is a global country .
It consists of 75 people, including deputies of the Senate and the Majilis, members of the government, representatives of state bodies, political parties, agribusiness, scientists, and social activists.
In the sectoral plan, the priority are the projects of entrepreneurs in the field of manufacturing - 194, and in the field of transportation and storage - 82 projects.
for example, all objects of the athletic village and the ice palace with 12,000 seats will serve as the property of the people the very next day after the end of the Universiade.
the integration of the electronic healthcare system with the information systems of medical organizations will be completed in 2017 before the introduction of mams.
53% of the expenses for the electoral campaign are the salaries of members of election commissions.
During the meeting, the results of the activities of the armed forces to increase the country's defense capability and combat readiness of troops for 2015 were discussed.
The project, which will be implemented by the end of the year, will employ 30 people, most of whom will be attracted from local residents.
Recall that the Almaty process is a permanent platform for exchange of views, created in 2011 on the initiative of Kazakhstan.
Experts assessed the Internet resources of 12 central state bodies, 36 committees of central state bodies, as well as 16 local executive bodies of the regions and cities of the capital and Almaty.
Budget program administrators and private investors will participate in the implementation of the environmental plan made up of 51 activities within the framework of the Almaty-2020 program.
today there are 8 types of services provided to entrepreneurs: legal, accounting, customs, public procurement, management, marketing, pricing quality assessment and dog. today , there are 8 types of services provided to businesses : legal , accounting , customs , public procurement , management , marketing , quality management system evaluation and it .
The 2017 Universiade in Alma-Ata and the exhibition in the capital will have a positive impact on the development of bilateral cooperation.
The leaders of the two states also discussed the schedule of meetings to be held in 2016 within the framework of the Shu, Eurasian, forum of interregional cooperation and other structures.
Mayor of the city b.baybek visited the exhibition "bolashak business fair," a representative of future entrepreneurs presented the brands "adili," "almacloud," "red dragon," "scoopers," "zerotoonelabs.com," "golden eagle," "fitnessblitz."
It should be noted that for the purchase of goods from Kazakhstan, the company entered into agreements with 5 transport companies.
during the construction of the mining and processing plant, 956 jobs will be created, and subsequently - 1540, "he said.
According to the head of the department, among the specific projects planned by 2016, the reconstructed sections of the Shubarkuduk-kobyl-kobda-yeletsk highway (267-307 km) will be commissioned.
It is worth noting that today in East Kazakhstan region 15 enterprises are partners of dual education.
the Kyrgyz side signed a protocol on the transfer of the place to the Shaldabar station, located 3 km from the border, "said a.sekeshev.
as a result of recovery, population growth in general, the average life expectancy of Kazakhstanis reached 72 years.
A national system against money-laundering and the financing of terrorism had been established in 2008.
According to the ministry, to date, 72% of the population is covered by the Internet in Kazakhstan, and the digital literacy rate of the population is 74%.
The Vice Minister also said that from January 1, 2018, a special state allowance will be changed, which provides for simplifying the procedures for assigning benefits without reducing the amount of payments.
In addition, 38 land plots were put up through the auction, as a result of which 8.3487 hectares of land worth 25,742,207 tenge were sold, "the akim of the district said.
The area of ​ ​ three universal stores will be 16,500 square meters, the construction of which will begin in the IV quarter of 2016 and will be completed in early 2018.
During the negotiations, the Turkmen voiced the need for services for the brand 3 ec145 helicopters, as well as training aviation technicians and pilots.
awarding of laureates was held in 11 categories: "Leader of the Year," "Heroism and Courage, Young Talent of the Year," "News of the Year, Best Youth Organization," "Young Worker of the Year, Best Youth Resource Center of the Year," "Young Athlete of the Year," "Volunteers of the Year, Best Internet Project of the Year." "
In order to expand social support for citizens, I instruct the government to develop a new employment roadmap by the end of the first quarter of 2016.
Acting Head of the Department of Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of East Kazakhstan region Samal Myrzabayeva spoke about the program execution in 2015.
Two years later, 30 experts of member states agreed on a draft charter document at an intergovernmental expert meeting in Astana.
Mobile in weight 22.5 tons and can reach speeds of up to 110 km/h depending on the tires.
As part of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps," it is necessary to finalize the bill "On testing."
According to the agreement with Kyrgyzstan, the volume of supplied electricity in 2016 will be 218 million kvtsag, the actual volume of exports at present is 53 million kvtsag, "said A. Satkaliev.
As part of the industrialization map, 6 pharmaceutical enterprises were opened in the region: Eleas LLP, dolce LLP, Sultan LLP, Axel and a LLC, Kelun Barracks LLP, SP Abdi Ibrahim Global Farm LLC.
This is evidenced by the fact that an expenditure group of 9 deputies was elected to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said W. Zheksembekova.
The Australian company Kazakhstan Potash Corporation plans to begin production of potash fertilizers with a capacity of 595.2 thousand tons per year with an investment of $800 million.
Recall, on January 13, deputies of the Majilis appealed to the president with a request to hold early parliamentary elections.
in addition, the reconstruction of the road connecting Aktobe and the place allowed to pass 7 thousand cars per day.
gained 345 votes, Vladimir of God 349, natalia Jumadildaeva 343, a novel to whom 346, Mikaelyan 336, Ahmed Murad 339, Nurymov 337, Yuri Tymoshenko 341, Shahir Khakhazov 342 votes.
According to the Chinese observer, the delegation met with the leaders of the CEC, representatives of state bodies and visited 6 polling stations.
Also, 13 mothers with many children living in the Saryarka region received awards from the head of the district, Pavel Kulagin.
Work on gasification of the remaining 26 settlements will continue this year, by the end of the year up to 25 settlements (about 90 thousand inhabitants) will be produced blue fuel.
about 60% of the candidates included in the party list of the Nur Otan party are people under the age of 55, the oldest of which is 26 years.
On May 25, the head of state will meet with members of the international advisory council to discuss the main directions of the development of the Kazakh economy, as well as steps to use the priorities of membership in the world trade organization and promote our country's initiatives in the international arena.
The size of the social payment for the loss of the breadwinner increased 4.8 times and in 2015 amounted to 20,555 tenge (in 1999 - 4,250 tenge), the report said.
The head of state noted that "according to the results of 2014, the volume of Kazakhstan's exports exceeded the volume of exports of the central zone by 30%."
It should be noted that since 2010, card projects produced products worth 6.2 trillion tenge, including 446 billion tenge in the first half of 2016.
According to him, 80% of Kazakhstanis chose imported milk of the Kazakh brand, which is in demand under the Kazakh name and domestic national design.
in addition, a plant with a capacity of 50 thousand cubic meters will be commissioned in the Bulandyn district. m of aerated concrete block products per year.
From February 16 to 19, 2016, in the advisory and diagnostic medical train "Salamatty қazaқstan" in the Karaganda region, residents of poplars, camels, shubarkul, Kyzylzhar points were examined.
We can say that today the volume of work on this model is 78%, "said the Vice Minister.
Since 2000, the number of natural disasters has increased sharply, the total damage of which exceeded one hundred billion dollars. since 2000 , the number of natural disasters has increased dramatically , and exceeded hundreds of billions of dollars .
that is, the proportion of renewable energy sources should reach 10%, and the accumulated balance should be 40%, "he explained.
housing, construction, financed by a network of local executive bodies, is provided according to the following rules: 50% - to investors of housing and communal services, 50% - to waiting lists.
Most of it falls on the Russian Rostselmash plant, so the company intends to increase the Kazakh content to 40%, "the report said.
During the exhibition, all 933 brands of independent Kazakhstan production will be presented, "the head of the Kazpost press service explained.
According to A. Sherniyazova, according to statistics, the number of women who have designed their avatars with national symbols is 2 times more than men.
a surplus of up to 2 million tons for gasoline, up to 1.5 million tons for diesel and 400 thousand tons for kerosene will also be important.
Volume of investments in fixed assets in January-February 2016. amounted to KZT601.9 bn, which is 4.1% more than in January-February 2015.
In general, 5,940 children visited kindergartens as part of the Balapan program, and the coverage of children by a preschool institution amounted to 80.2%.
According to him, in the future, starting from 2012, the volume of trade will support growth by 3% per year.
In March 2016, a program will begin to teach English to representatives of sports facilities, city services, volunteers in 5 universities in the city.
59 laws entered into force, which legally laid the foundation for the development of society and the state.
According to the head of the mission, the observers who will be in the capital will include 11 international experts and two participants from 10 other countries.
here, a credit of 5% is granted to farmers.
Industrial production volume in January-April 2016. in current prices amounted to 5469.1 billion tenge, which is 1.4% less than in January-April 2015.
It is worth noting that over the course of two weeks, 200 posts and videos from different regions of the country were published in the treasury with the hashtag # menelesim and # why.
During the formation of the capital, expediency increased 156 times and reached 4 trillion tenge, which was not before the non-resource region.
in addition, it is planned to increase the production capacity of the Vector plant for the production of up to 300 units of combine harvesting equipment per year.
According to the employment roadmap, 5 thousand heads of dairy cows were sold through microcredit.
Within the framework of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps for the implementation of five institutional reforms, the parliament adopted 59 laws in the fall of 2015.
In turn, Konstantin Ushakov, director of Aviaremontny Zavod No. 405 JSC, noted that this roadmap provides for the development of a service network.
As the head of state noted, growth in manufacturing and construction amounted to 72%, large infrastructure projects were implemented.
On May 4, 2016, the deputy met with the leadership of the North Kazakhstan Regional Branch of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the chairman of the regional "Association for the Protection of Consumers and Entrepreneurs."
In general, all the innovations of the court are embedded in the plan of the nation and launched since the beginning of 2016, in addition, a significant national judicial system has been updated.
In 2005, he was appointed head of the Baikonur cosmodrome department of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In the first direction of the program "Providing employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services" 1403.1 million tenge was allocated for major repairs at 35 social facilities.
the total cost of the project is more than 56 billion tenge, 72.3% of the necessary funds will be provided in the form of loans in national currency for up to 10 years.
In addition, the company "per day" will go to this route on Monday, which will carry passengers in 12 gas cars.
At the meeting, the Secretary General of eusa spoke about the participation of European state-mothers and the rich heritage of the 2017 Universiade.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 112 representatives of foreign media from 26 states as of February 29, 2016.
The project of the initial entrepreneur Nurbek Saksenbayev for the production of beekeeping and honey was found among the best at the grant financing competition and transferred to an individual entrepreneur for the implementation of an innovative project for 1 million tenge, the report said.
the number of self-employed among the employed amounted to 2.3 million people or 27%, "the report said.
In order to expand production and increase the productivity of the pharmaceutical company, investments worth $75 million are attracted.
The Merken branch of Central Asian Sugar Association LLP plans to reconstruct the enterprise's juice purification workshop in the second quarter of 2016.
Kazakhstan is an important partner of the competitive Eurasian program from the date of its publication in 2008.
first of all to all Azerbaijani peoples, you share all the burdens incurred in the bloody January 1990s. for all the azerbaijani people you are a man who shared the fate of our people , the events of bloody january of 1990 and contributed to the media coverage of social activities .
in accordance with this resolution, the Central Election Commission accredited 103 observers from three international organizations and one foreign state on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	upon the recommendation of the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan , 103 observers from three international organizations and one foreign country have been accredited by the central election commission .	2,39
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, 66.7 million tenge of investments, 72 agreements and 8 licensing agreements have been concluded.	according to the ministry of education and science of kazakhstan , nowadays 66.7 million tenge of investments has been attracted to develop inventions , 72 contracts and 8 of license agreements have been signed .	2,39
consolidated turnover amounted to 11 billion 186 million ton-kilometers, which is 2% lower than the same indicator for the first quarter of 2015, the report said.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations will be carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016, "he said.
For more than 20 years, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan has become a solid basis for peace and stability in the country. for more than 20 years the assembly of people of kazakhstan is a reliable guarantor of the unity and harmony of the kazakh society .
According to Kazkosmos, 12 years ago, on March 18, 2004, by decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 30, 2003 No. 1355, the "Republican Center for Space Communications" of Kazkosmos was created.
plan of the nation - 100 concrete steps, "construction, electric power, agro-industrial complex.
Today, the industrial zone located in the Alatau district of Almaty is equipped with external engineering networks by 90%.
In general, ahko will be ready to begin operations by September 2017, when the international exhibition Expo will end, to accept the first companies.
It is worth noting that today the Ural plant Zenit has 23 years of experience in the field of assembly of warships.
at the second stage, 329 schoolchildren from all regions of the republic wrote essays on-line testing and 165 students who scored high scores.
5 investment forums organized to date have made it possible to raise funds in the amount of 100 billion tenge for the socio-economic development of the region.	so , 5 investment forums , held in the region , helped to raise about 100 billion of investment in social and economic development of the region .	2,39
Teacher of school-gymnasium No. 1 of Taraz, Zhambyl region carried out a lot of work of the fifth convocation.	according to teacher of the school № 1 in taraz anna russina , the work of the fifth convocation of the majilis was very productive .	2,39
In addition, with the help of foreign investors, we plan to train 370 people to work at a glass factory, "said Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
On April 28, 1936, the Decree of the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR "On Immigrants from Ukraine" was adopted, according to which Poles living in Ukraine moved to Kazakhstan.
Recall that the festive events began on December 1 with the ceremony of lighting the main Christmas tree with the participation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in general, 4 nominations are provided: "the best socially responsible enterprise," "the best enterprise in the field of labor protection," "the best collective agreement" and "for contribution to the environment."
After the approval of meetings and elections to maslikhats on March 20, 2016, the chairmen of the central election commissions sent invitations to the first heads of the central election commissions of 18 states.
The adoption in March of the Unified Business Support Program "Business Roadmap 2020" became the main news of state support for small and medium-sized businesses in 2015.
in general, our legislation consists of 18 codes, 292 voluntary laws, 183 presidential decrees, 2000 government decrees, more than 4 thousand state central bodies and more than 12 thousand local bodies, "the imashev informed.
These are 14 international pavilions, a corporate pavilion, the office of the organizers of the exhibition, the congress office, the congress center, the national day pavilion, the energy hall, reports k.kelimbetov.
The volume of social benefits from the state social insurance fund for incapacity for work and loss of the breadwinner will increase by 7%.
Currently, there are 102 MWh of projects at various stages of preparation in Kazakhstan: at the republican level - 8, at the local level - 94. currently , the state bodies have initiated 102 projects of public-private partnership , 8 of them are being implemented at the national level , 94 are being discussed in the regions , " - a. oinarov told .
The head of the lake peasant farm plans to open a livestock complex for 200 cattle this year.
more than half of cases in the structure of mortality - diseases of the circulatory system (26%), malignant neoplasms (13%), injuries (11%); birth and childhood (3.6 per cent).
One of the projects proposed to the guests was the construction of a transport and logistics center in Aktobe in the area of ​ ​ the international airport for a total of 12 billion tenge.
In February 2016, according to preliminary data, the National Bank's gold and foreign exchange reserves grew by 2.8% to $27.7 billion.
In 2017, we plan to increase the capacity of the project to 18 tons, and in 2020 - to 25 tons of gold per year, "said the director of the enterprise.
B. Sultanov noted that during the action, 90 thousand citizens appealed to the competent authorities with the issue of legalizing their property.
In January-April 2016, compared to the same period last year, transit traffic in Kazakhstan increased by 205%.
The project plan was developed with the proposals of the committee, on April 1 it was approved by the bureau members and includes the main measures, "he said.
34 observers from the CIS observer mission, 1 from the Shu mission, 75 from the Eku parliamentary assembly. "
In 2015, 136 thousand people took part in the employment roadmap, of which 53% were unemployed citizens, 47% were self-employed.
For the period from January to March 2016, trade turnover between Almaty and Kazakhs amounted to 129.9 million US dollars.
Currently, on June 4, all regions of the country have experience in holding events that will now be celebrated in the legislative order, "he said.
In accordance with the rules and the decision of the competition commission, 10 candidates with high academic performance, actively engaged in research work and engaged in social activities were selected for the Nazarbayev scholarship.
65 scientific projects are currently being implemented as part of a joint technology commercialization program with the World Bank.
The main issue of the year will be the holding of a special section within the framework of the forum, as well as the event that will be held in the capital.
600 buses with hybrid fuel will be additionally included, participants will have the opportunity to use public transport for their benefit.
In 2016, the quota of attraction of zhi in relation to the economically active population of the republic (about 63.1 thousand people) was set at 0.7%.
an educational program was developed with them, which will be shared with 10 colleges in the future.
According to the company, taking into account all necessary procedures for the unification of enterprises, the merger of Cruz LLP and Repair LLP is expected to be completed by October 1, 2016.
In total, during the campaign for the legalization of their property, about 78 thousand people applied to the authorized bodies.
Recall that the fund of white funds "Treasury Capital Management," created in May 2007, was implemented at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
eidu unites 34 economies of the world, and, of course, the experience of the Aidu countries and the director of public administration are important for all regional countries implementing reforms. the oecd brings together 34 most developed economies in the world and , of course , the experience of oecd countries and the directorate for state administration is very important for all countries implementing reforms .
Since June 2015, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Allur Group of Companies.
The United Nations declared August 29 the closing day of the Semipalatinsk test site an international day for combating nuclear tests.	the united nations has declared august 29 , the date of the closure of the semipalatinsk test site , as the international day against nuclear testing .	2,41
As he noted, Vice President of Kazakhstan, Spain exports steel, copper, lead from Kazakhstan, the total share of which does not exceed 5%.	besides oil , as deputy chairman explained , spain exports from kazakhstan steel , copper , lead , refined , share does not exceed 5 % .	2,41
According to the official website of the Mayor's Office of the city, currently the international project covers about 40 countries of the world and is aimed at attracting tourists from China.	at the moment , the international project covers 40 countries and is aimed at attracting tourists from china .	2,41
Fortunately, EXPO-2017 will be held in the capital under favorable weather, the average temperature will be 25 degrees.	according to her , the average temperature will be about 25 degrees during the expo exhibition .	2,41
Therefore, we must switch to the use of renewable energy, without changing the station, equipment until the 30s.	it will be possible to save up to 30 % of energy by improving the quality of building materials and heat conservation in buildings .	2,41
It is planned that the two heads of state will discuss the implementation of the agreements reached during the state visit of H. Rouhani to the capital in September 2014.	it is planned that two leaders will discuss the implementation of the agreements reached during the state visit of h. rouhani in astana in september 2014 .	2,41
It is worth noting that on the territory of 60.5 hectares today it is possible to implement 10 projects.	it is worth noting that currently implementation of 10 projects has been confirmed on the territory of 60.5 hectares .	2,42
97 million hectares of land that are leased, farmers are allowed to acquire as their own property.	and 97 million hectares of lease land can be bought into private ownership by the farmers .	2,42
The construction of the road Almat - Kapchagai and Kapchagai - Taldykorgan with a total length of 549 km is also actively underway.	now almaty region carries out works in directions almaty - khorgos ( one of the last sections of the corridor  western europe - western china " ) , almaty - kapshagai and kapshagai - taldykorgan with the total length 549 km .
On May 5, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will visit 7 districts of the Aktobe region, which will be located in the Khromtau, March, Mughalzhar, Iron, Shalkar and Kobda districts.
As noted e. Sagadiyev, they are trained by 700 trainers, and these are people familiar with the content of the updated education.
Recall that the volume of solidarity pensions in Kazakhstan is annually indexed 2% higher than inflation.
In the first five-year period of industrialization, 2.5 new industries worth $ 60 billion were commissioned, which will provide 16 thousand permanent jobs. As part of the first five-year industrialization plan Kazakhstan mmc commissioned 60 new production facilities in the amount of $2.5 billion, created more than than 16 thousand permanent jobs.
a 25 per cent increase in disability and survivors' social benefits and scholarships will be secured in the coming year.
During the meeting, members of the public council discussed the work plan for 2016 and considered the draft regulatory legal acts developed by the ministry.
To date, 700 people are working, in 4 years we successfully implemented the third project, received support from state programs, "he said.
In 2014, for example, in January and February, more than 15 thousand Kazakhstanis received a driver's license in specialized PSCs, of which 4 thousand were women. in 2014 , for example , in january and february more than 15 thousand kazakhstanis received driver 's license in special pscs , 4 thousand of them were women .
Representatives of the enterprise explain this by a decrease in demand from the main consumer of the Tikhvin ferroalloy plant since 2015.
The production capacity of the carmeuse enterprise allows the production of more than 13 million tons of lime and 33 million tons of various lime per year worldwide.
for example, in the city of Arkalyk it is planned to open a "mobile planetarium," and in the Amangelda region - a vegetable storage facility of up to 500 tons.
In total, in 2016, an average repair of 110 km of roads of international and national importance, 68.3 km of roads of local importance will be carried out.
The Chairman of the Board noted that to date 54 countries and 11 international organizations have confirmed their participation in the exhibition and appointed 29 commissioners of sections of international pavilions.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 116 representatives of foreign media from 28 states as of March 3, 2016.
It will be attended by 20 employers of the capital, who will present 120 vacancies, the official website of the capital's akimat reported.
For example, 91 joint projects of Kazakhstan and Turkey are being implemented for a total of about $3 billion, the head of state said.
In general, 301 election commissions will participate in the elections of deputies of all levels, "A. Markova said.
Recall, on March 20 of this year, early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels will be held.
The planned volume from April to June 2016 will be 218 million kvts, "the press service of Samruk-enego said.
The Minister noted that since 2005, 200 billion dollars of direct investments have been attracted to Kazakhstan, while recently the manufacturing industry has been in primary terms.
It is worth noting that in 2016 today the wages of government employees included in the B corps are increasing.
the exhibition presented new equipment and technologies to ensure public and industrial safety from 40 companies in Germany, Kazakhstan, China, Russia and Ukraine.
Thus, a total of 964 international observers and representatives of foreign media are currently accredited, "said the CEC secretary.
The code provides for the introduction of a register of dominants from January 1, 2016 only in high-regulation markets. the code provides the following changes : since january 1 , 2016 the registry of dominants will include the subjects of highly concentrated ( regulated ) markets .
According to B. Mustafin, 93 projects 19 projects are implemented for 76 billion tenge, which made it possible to create 1637 jobs.
According to the results of business negotiations, Kazakh wheat and flour products worth $700,000 are being prepared for export to Afghanistan, "he said.
In 2016, a single funded pension fund, a fund of problem loans and other financial institutions will be removed from the control of the national bank.
In 2015, in the history of Kazakhstan, he left his bright mark, "said a resident of the capital, a zhapakova rose.
The cost of 1 square meter of housing in the capital and Almaty is more than 240 thousand tenge, in the regions - 200 thousand tenge, "the minister said.
At the end of the meeting, jubilee medals were awarded to the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan for 20 years and commemorative signs dedicated to the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
During the event, issues of modernization of the judicial and legal system within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev were discussed.
members of public commissions were represented to journalists, many of them were observers in the presidential elections in 2011, 2015 and in the parliamentary elections in 2012.
The local budget for 2016 provides funds for one-time material assistance to veterans in the amount of 2.6 billion tenge.
Head of the secretariat of EXPO-2017 Ayan Herepov noted that on December 14, 2015, an agreement was concluded with China on the simplification of the visa regime.
An important step was the signing in 2015 of an agreement on the placement in Kazakhstan of a bank of low-enriched uranium.
A district branch of the Nұr Otan party was opened, in which there were more than 21 thousand employees, "said S. Baigozhin.
According to the agency, this debt is planned to be repaid within 20 years, including a grace period of 2.5 years.
We have connected manufacturers in 15 commodity positions with customers, we plan to develop cooperation between manufacturers and large consumers within Kazakhstan, the speaker said.
of which 20 million are those who are not looking for work, do not have higher education or their knowledge does not meet the requirements, "he said.
As the examination shows, 60% of foreign direct investment is opened by investors of new enterprises, reinvested.	the analysis has shown that more than 60 % of foreign direct investment is investors are opening new enterprises and reinvesting .	2,44
If we talk about the role of the fund as a whole, the fund financed 56 projects with the participation of KKM, which amounted to 1 billion 83 million US dollars.
The complex is implemented under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" and is included in the state program "Industrialization Map" of the country, while mechanisms for guaranteeing and subsidizing the interest rate from the Enterprise Development Fund "Development" were used.
to date, the nation's plan is 100 concrete steps. "
In turn, the leadership of the chamber reported that there are support centers for entrepreneurs in 188 district centers, single-industry towns, and small towns.
In 2008, Voskhod Company implemented an investment project for a mining and processing complex at the Voskhod field in the Khromtau region.
Over the past 5 years alone, 950 new enterprises have been created within the framework of the industrial development program in the country and 250 thousand new jobs have been created.
the institution itself organized and conducted 12 training activities for law enforcement, monitoring, children and other vulnerable segments of the population in closed institutions in 7 regions of the country, covering all representatives of the republic.
The Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia is an integrated organization created in 1992 on the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan. the conference on interaction and confidence-building measures in asia ( cica ) is an integrative organization , which was established at the initiative of the president of kazakhstan in 1992 .
At own expense, the business representative plans to carry out major repairs and purchase the necessary equipment in the amount of 70 million tenge.
Every day, an average of 500 people visit the "government for citizens," about 350 of them turn to social and pension issues, "the head of the region said at the opening of the facility.
The region has a "Kyzylorda small-tonnage oil refinery" with a capacity of 100 thousand tons per year for the production of petroleum products.
In this regard, I say that 20 years of the formation of the assembly is 20 years of calm, 20 years of friendship and stability.	the organization exists for 20 years , 20 years of peace , 20 years of development of kazakhstan , it is a unique organization .	2,44
Eidu has decreased for manufacturing by an average of 10% over 5 years, and in our country it has remained unchanged.	the oecd manufacturing industry decreased by 10 % for 5 years , in kazakhstan it remained unchanged .	2,44
A list of historical and archaeological sites and places of frequent visits to 505 visits has also been compiled, "said the Perizat Taibekovna.
the length of the route was brought to 9 thousand kilometers and delivered in 14 days (30 days by sea) half as long as at sea.
As a result of joint work with the Development Fund for 2010-2015, about 4 thousand jobs were created, entrepreneurs produced products totaling 90 billion tenge.
In accordance with the presidential decree adopted on November 18, 2015, a loan agreement was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Asian Development Bank in the amount of $1 billion. the agreement on the loan between kazakhstan and the asian development bank totaling usd 1 billion was signed in accordance with the decree of the president as of november 18 , 2015 .
in Taraz, in the villages of Otar, Kordai, Merki, Akyrtobe and Bauyrzhan Momyshuls, work was carried out on the construction and reconstruction of 3 "road-operational units" and 3 "road points."
A. Yessimov noted that 78 billion tenge was supported by the head of state, and now it is necessary to make new proposals to optimize the budget while maintaining the implementation of the project.
for example, rainbow LLP for 20 years has increased the production of goods of its own production, opens a trading system throughout Kazakhstan.
In addition, in 2016, as part of a public-private partnership, a contract was signed for the creation of 5 kindergartens for 1290 places with kazazmeco LLP.
wheat flour, pasta, meat and dairy preserves, dried vegetables, liquid oil, tea of 873 thousand kush were shipped to Tajikistan.
In coordination with the construction department in 2015, the level of Kazakh content amounted to 53%, this year it is planned to increase the indicator to 70%.
Volume of gross agricultural output in January-March 2016. amounted to KZT317.8 bn and increased by 2.9% compared to January-March 2015.
The age of participants among youth was 29 years, that is, 47%, last year 50% of women took part in the employment roadmap, "he said.
The company also received 20 tons of herbicides, 200 tons of diesel fuel, about 100 tons of seeds, "said the akim of the district.
The festival will end on June 8 with a grand concert in front of the Astana Opera and Ballet State Theater.
In addition, in January 2015, as part of the state program "Nұrly zhol," the construction of the passenger terminal of the airport in Astana began.
It is assumed that the effectiveness of the measures taken will be an additional 0.4% of the level of economic growth planned for 2016.
The main goal of institutional reforms is to enter the 30 most developed countries by 2050, "said Lyubov.
From January 1, 2016, the register of priority parts will be maintained only for highly complete (regulated) market entities. the code provides the following changes : since january 1 , 2016 the registry of dominants will include the subjects of highly concentrated ( regulated ) markets .
During the talks, the parties summed up the interim results of trade, economic and investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Thailand for 2015, discussed the prospects for bilateral and multilateral cooperation in 2016.
As previously reported, the intellectual contact center of Astana accepts applications and sends messages in three ways: through the mobile application "smart astana," the official pages of "astana 109" on social networks "facebook," "instagram" and "twitter," as well as free calls from city and mobile phones to the number "109."
According to M. Hongbo, Kazakh vegetable oil is supplied in Shaanxi province, where more than 35 million people live.
5 President Nursultan Nazarbayev implements the programs of institutional reforms and the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
Since the beginning of the year, 210.9 thousand hectares of land have been attracted for the use of reserve funds, which is 51% of the annual plan.
Recall that in Azerbaijan on December 21 of this year, the national currency was sent into free circulation and at the same time lost 50% of its value.
the regional center for the region and manufacturing industry is mainly occupied by: Ural - 70%, indigenous - 14%, Zelenov - 6.5%, axe - 5.5%, "said A. Ulginov.
During the construction of infrastructure, 939 jobs will function, and by 2020 about 10 thousand jobs will be created.
107 - regional, capital and Almaty city maslikhats; 804 - district maslikhats; 139 - to the city maslikhats.	among them : 107 people for the regional , astana and almaty maslikhats , 804 people - district , 139 people - the city maslikhats .	2,46
From June 1, 2017, the fund will play the role of a payer of medical services and pay for medical services, he said.
In addition, to attract foreign specialists, citizens of Europe, Europe, Malaysia, Singapore and Monaco are granted the right to stay in Kazakhstan for 30 days, "he said.
In addition, President Nazarbayev noted that after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, he made a consistent and significant contribution to the construction of the modern state structure. in addition , president nazarbayev is distinguished by the fact that after the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 , he made a consistent and significant contribution to the construction of the present structure of the state .
As part of the work carried out to improve the implementation of the future scholarship, we opened for the first time in history a language school in Almaty on October 7, 2015 and in Astana on February 1 of this year.
Also, with representatives of business structures, an investment project on woodworking for 9.7 billion tenge is being developed, which will create 300 new jobs.
The leaders of the two countries discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the state visit of H. Rouhani to the capital in September 2014.
During the years of independence, the Kazakh dollar increased 20 times, including 2014, the average monthly salary 17 times.
Recall that in January 29, the XVII Extraordinary Congress of the Nur Otan Party was held in the capital under the chairmanship of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
Recall that "100 concrete steps" is a response to domestic global challenges and joining the number of 30 developed countries in new historical conditions.
The list of car loans is provided through the following banks approved by the state commission for modernization of the economy of Kazakhstan: Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan White (3 billion tenge), Eurasian Bank White (3 billion tenge), Sberbank Russia White (3 billion tenge), Bank Center Credit (2 billion tenge).
In his message, the head of state noted that from January 1, 2016, health care will be provided by 28%, education - by 29%, social development - by 40%.
The meeting was attended by the heads of about 25 Turkish companies: ukter group, turkuaz group, yeldirim group, yeldiz holding, akfel holding, aselsan electronic, acibadem.
Between 2005 and 2015, foreign direct investment in Kazakhstan amounted to $215 billion.
According to the largest poultry farm in Kazakhstan, the company is ready to increase its production capacity and export 700 million eggs per year. large poultry farms of kazakhstan are ready to increase their production capacity and export more than 700 million eggs per year .
During the meeting, issues of political, economic and humanistic cooperation between Kazakhstan and China were discussed at meetings with Prime Minister Karim Massimov in September 2015 and December 2015.
On April 2, the chairman of the Senate K.Tokayev spoke at the opening of the second Singapore forum on the topic: "Asia and peace - common opportunities, shared prosperity."
The participants were also given the opportunity to discuss the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between the EU and Kazakhstan, signed on December 21, 2015.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstani gin dollars, including 2014, increased by 20 times, the average monthly salary by 17 times.
The head of state constantly draws attention to the development of the space industry, in recent years 4 of his own satellites have appeared, "the Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said.
For 20 years, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has been honourably fulfilling its task of preserving this wealth.
In 2005-2015, the inflow of direct investments from Spain to Kazakhstan amounted to about $183 million, from Kazakhstan to Spain - about $15 million, he said.
For the second five-year plan it is planned to implement 869 projects worth 115 billion tenge and create 20 thousand jobs.
In March 2015, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of conversion to unify some provisions of international air transportation."
In 2016, we plan to launch a continuation, these are high-performance innovations, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
The report says that last year 3.6 billion tenge was allocated in this program, of which 3.5 billion tenge was spent, that is, 100%.
In the Kyzylorda industrial zone in 2016, construction of plants for the production of ferroalloys, asphalt concrete, silicate bricks and cement for cork will begin. in 2016 , kyzylorda region in to start the construction of ferroalloy plant , and plant for the production of asphalt concrete and sand-lime brick , oil-well cement .
We divide the posts of public servants into 4 departments: a management officer who performs the functions of organizational leadership.
As previously reported, since 2007 Kazakhstan has introduced a new system of training of all medical specialties, including pediatricians.
In general, since the beginning of the charity event "25 useful things" in all districts and cities of the region, this event has continued, 3.5 thousand people took part in it.
According to Bekenov, in order to maintain an optimistic scenario, income will be reduced in 2016.
In 2016, about 65 billion tenge will be attracted for lending to small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan, "said E. Dossayev.
The list of 4 subsidiaries of the holding, previously planned for transfer to the private sector, includes kazagrofinance, food corps, kazagronym and kazagromarketing.	the list includes 4 subsidiaries :  kazagrofinance " jsc , " nc " food contract corporation " jsc , " kazagroprodukt " and " kazagromarketing , " said n. malelov .
Also, as the chairman of the institute noted, the implementation of 5 institutional reforms has begun.
we saw a decrease in investments in the mining industry, production decreased by 64%, raw materials - by 73%, construction and trade - by 50%.	chairman also said that the investments in the mining industry have reduced - about 64 % , in crude oil production - 73 % , construction and trade - 50 % .	2,47
- The message of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev dated November 30, 2015 spoke about the increase in wages to representatives of the public sector and health workers.	since november 30 , 2015 the salary of health workers was significantly increased .	2,47
if we talk about the manifesto, this is evidence of the policy pursued by the state for more than 25 years.
As for medical care, according to the minister, 15 thousand participants in the Second World War receive free medicines.
Recall that at the meeting of the Ministers of Employment, Labor and Social Security, which takes place in Paris, representatives of 42 countries of the world take part.
During this period, pension expenses increased almost 9.3 times from 99.1 billion tenge in 1999 to 918.4 billion tenge in 2015.
This year, the Astana Economic Forum will be held on May 25-26. this year astana economic forum will be held on 25-26 may .
more than 50% of the budget is allocated for social security, the development of education and health, culture and sports in 2016.
Thanks to this, schools, clinics, a large stadium, 24 kindergartens will be built at the expense of extrabudgetary funds, "he said.
for citizens, the transition to the state corporation of the government, which in the future will be 522 public services, and at the second stage there will be 709, "said D. Nazarbayev.
up to 17 working days to issue an architectural and planning task, including for transfer to technically complex objects.	the issuance of documents , including technically complex objects will take up to 17 days .	2,48
On December 7, 2015, at the initiative of Kazakhstan, the UN General Assembly adopted a universal declaration on the creation of a world free of nuclear weapons.	on december 7 , 2015 , the un general assembly adopted the universal declaration for the achievement of a nuclear-weapons-free world put forward by kazakhstan .	2,48
Also, about 500 thousand residents receive digital signatures and learn to receive public services on the e-government portal in the self-service sector "connection point."
In 2015, the number of employees amounted to 6.3 million people, or 73% of the total employed population.	the number of employees in 2015 was 6.3 million people or 73 % of the total employment in the economy .	2,48
In 2015, the number of convicts by the courts amounted to 25.5%, which is 13% less than in 2014.
Under these conditions, the state offers new approaches to the implementation of state programs "Nұr zhol," "100 concrete steps" - the plan of the nation, industrial innovative development, "the minister said.
According to the head of the holding, 29 thousand people were employed due to programs implemented by Kazagro.
the cargo turnover of oil for the separate "kaztransoil" amounted to 9 billion 109 million tons-kilometers, which is 1% lower than the same indicator for the first quarter of 2015.
Also, as a member of kha, I want to say that in 2015, as part of the 20th anniversary, many events were held.
In early 1992, a resolution was issued by the Presidium of the Supreme Council on the creation of a working group on the manufacture of new state symbols.
According to him, the control cycle of the national fund is visible in the income structure, unit deductions increased compared to 2014.
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is evidence that the President of Kazakhstan foresaw how to develop the state.
in addition, a concept for the development of the tourism industry, a roadmap for the development of trilingual education until 2020 has been developed.
In the "Mistake and kumite" section, athletes quarreled between girls and boys in 22 categories.
To date, 111 CIS observers have been registered, 130 documents to be registered are in the central election commission.
thanks to the implementation of the main measures, the average centralized water supply of the region increased by 86%. in general , implementation of these measures increased the medium regional access to the piped water supply up to 86 % .
Recall that on January 20, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree on the dissolution and early elections of deputies of the fifth convocation of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also, 60 billion tenge will be allocated for the creation of exhibition content, the creation of dog infrastructure and other events, "the minister said.
Also, "as soon as possible, laws were considered and adopted for the President's National Plan" 100 concrete steps. "
contracts have been concluded with international tour operators skyway international travels, stic travel group and cits.
In 2015, 18 settlements of West Kazakhstan region, Kostanay, Aktobe, South Kazakhstan region were gasified at the expense of the republican and local budgets. in 2015 , 18 settlements of west kazakhstan , kostanay , aktobe , south kazakhstan regions are provided with gas services at the expense of the republican and local budgets .
The Director General of the Union of Transport Workers of Kazakhstan kazlogistics rope Almagambetov was elected president for a period of 3 years in accordance with the regulations of the union.
During the event, sociologists and humanitarian workers will discuss their role in the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
According to him, today 22 projects have more than 70% of the project capacity, 5 projects - above 50%, the remaining projects are implemented in stages.
He noted that since 2010, 1.5 thousand women received loans in the amount of 12 billion tenge under the microcredit program.
This growth is ensured by increasing the production of livestock products by 3%.
school work offers a new format for teaching English "6 + 6," where in the first 6 months quota fellows of the "future" will study English in Kazakhstan, the remaining 6 months - abroad.
thanks to its full capacity, the plant plans to produce more than 200 thousand tons of railway rails and produce 230 thousand tons of source products per year. reaching full capacity , the plant plans to produce at least 200 thousand tons of rails and 230 thousand tons of long products per year .
It was created at the Brown Cheese Factory LLP operating since 1951.
It is worth noting that the international watch in memory of millions of Panfilov began on October 16 last year in the city of Orel of the Russian Federation.
Kazakhstan is only developing and you can use all your opportunities at the exhibition in the capital in 2017, "he said.
According to the ministry, since the start of the industrialization program, 30 large investors have begun to create business at processing enterprises.
district election commissions also registered 836 proxies of candidates for deputies of maslikhats.
Also, according to him, the data of statistical expertise indicate that 36 thousand sports tests are functioning in the republic today.
x. As Garcia-Margole noted, "Kazakhstan in expanding its business will become a platform and hub for 17 million users in the market."
The total production capacity of 2 cement plants in the region is 1 million 800 thousand tons of cement per year.
Today, Karaganda Energy Center LLP is ready to provide the city with an additional 110 MW of electricity and 180 gcal/s of thermal power.
Representatives of 130 nationalities live in Kazakhstan, we must, firstly, propagate Kazakh traditions, children should be patriots of their country. in kazakhstan , there are more than 130 nationalities , and we need to promote firstly kazakh traditions and customs to grow up patriots , " - concluded r. privalenko .
In addition, he noted that since 2015, the agency has been actively engaged in reinvestment.
Recall that the implementation of the international transit corridor "Western Europe - Western China" began in 2009 on behalf of the head of state.
As a result, with the full implementation of the program, 22 facilities are expected to be commissioned in the region before the end of the year.
So, according to Berdibek Saparbayev, about 10 projects still cannot reach full capacity.
up to 500 hectares of land can be allocated on the territory of the agglomeration to create an industrial territory in the field of industry and the agro-industrial complex, the head of the region said.
In general, three refineries in Kazakhstan have a technological opportunity to produce 130 tons of products, including raw materials.
As part of the inflation targeting of the National Bank, it is necessary to reduce the inflation rate to 4%, "said N. Nazarbayev.
To date, Karaganda and Karkaraly districts have carried out the necessary work and restored 200 km of electric networks, "he said.
Currently, the Minister of Defense is tasked with training specialists in 16 specialties for the training of professional technical specialists. at present , the task of the minister of defense of kazakhstan is to prepare a professional and technical staff in 16 professions .
в список fortune 500 входят бары: toyota, bmw, sony mobile, bridgestone, mitsubishi electric, colgate palmolive, kao, daikin, pepsi-cola, sumitomo rubber и yokohama tire manufacturing.
In December 2015, kum Frzh raised settlement payments, which will lead to a continued increase in prices for the American currency.
today we are a unique country and more than a hundred ethnic groups and 17 denominations live in peace and harmony.
Over the past 11 years, thanks to the improvement of the investment climate and targeted work, foreign direct investment in Kazakhstan amounted to 212 billion dollars.
2015 ended with the implementation of the goals of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" for the judicial system of the country.
The non-profit joint-stock company "State Corporation" Government for Citizens "was created on behalf of the head of state as part of the implementation of the" Plan of the Nation - 100 Concrete Steps. "
- The message of the head of state also states that from January 1, 2016 the funded pension will be indexed at the devaluation rate by 2%.
For the implementation of the road project with a length of 4.7 thousand km, it is planned to attract more than 8 billion dollars.
in general, over the past year, the volume of electricity generated from renewable energy sources amounted to about 700 million kw/h.
It was developed in accordance with the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and the plan of social modernization and the nation "100 concrete steps."
among them are companies such as ebrr, chevron, "erg," "metro cash & carry," "jp morgan & co.," "citigroup," "baker & mckenzie," "ernst & young," "ebr," "lukoil."
we will develop further, 13 districts are so involved in the association of business women, "he said.
50 enterprises were registered in Kazakhstan in the field of tourism, transport and expeditionary services, consumer services with the participation of Emirati capital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in his lecture to students, that is, in 1994, proposed not to distinguish between the economies of former Soviet countries.
According to e. Dossayev, 15 billion tenge will be allocated to complete the construction of housing and a shopping and entertainment center on the territory of expo-2017.
This year it is planned to implement 2 industrial projects worth 9 billion 415 million tenge, where 50 new jobs will be created. This year, it is planned to implement 2 industrial projects worth 9 billion 415 million tenge, and create 50 jobs, "- the mayor said.
secondly, in the framework of inflation targeting, the national bank needs to reduce the inflation rate to 4% in the medium term.
The Omsk-Pavlodar-Maykapshagay highway with a length of 59 km between the villages of baikonys and novochernoyarka has also been restored.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, Bota LLP produces 200 tons of oilseeds per day and prepares high-quality oil.
Since the creation of the language training center, more than 10 thousand people have been covered by state language courses.
The future of Kazakhstan is to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world and connect with rich and powerful countries. in the current years we need to restore such economic growth that will provide entry of kazakhstan into the top 30 most developed countries .
Due to the decrease in the number of convicts this year, it is planned to close 7 correctional institutions.
the design capacity of the plant is up to 8 million m2 of carpet products and up to 4 thousand tons of synthetic threads per year.
our country's capacity to export beef in the countries themselves is estimated by experts at about $5 billion per year.
According to him, as a result of the visionary policy of the head of state, currently 8,000 students have become graduates of the "future."
Thus, as of March 1, 2016, the Central Election Commission accredited 175 observers from missions of two international organizations (ecu/diakb and cis), one international organization (organization of Islamic cooperation) and eight foreign states.
we received a real spirit of freedom in 1991, when we received sovereignty, our sovereignty was based on the spirit of our ancestors, "he said.
all of them have higher education: technical, legal, economic, philosophical, journalistic and of them 4 candidates of sciences and one professor.
According to V. Agayev, on the initiative of the head of state, the state timely adopted the National Plan "100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms."
It should be noted that exports from Afghanistan to Kazakhstan amount to 9.2 million dollars, and imports from Kazakhstan - 400 million dollars.
the amnesty period was extended until December 31, 2016 in order to link the completion of legalization with the process of universal declaration.
I think that next year, by the opening of the international exhibition "Expo-2017," the population of our city will reach 1 million people.
Also, 28 residential buildings are being built for commercial houses, 4 for residential plants.
March 1 in our country is not only the first day of spring, but also the day of founding of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. today , march 1 , is one more historical milestone - the day of establishment of nur otan party .
One of the current directions of entrepreneurs in the capital is subsidizing a 16 percent rate on loans with interest rates.
In 2016, Kazakhstan will continue to work on a multi-vector, stabilized foreign policy "Main direction in the space of global economic integration."
Currently, the national team is tasked with bringing this result to a high level and winning at least 10 licenses in 6 sports.
According to the plan of comprehensive privatization, the samruk-kazyna group of companies should bring 217 facilities into the competitive environment by 2020.
a plant for the production of ungazed lime with a capacity of 25 thousand tons per year of Igdanit LLP is being built on the territory of the Akkuduk rural district.
therefore, from January next year, the size of the solidarity pension payment will be increased by 9% (7% - the average inflation rate and 2% - progress).
in addition, within the framework of the "100 Concrete Steps" Plan of the Nation, a number of reforms are being implemented to improve the investment climate.
According to the press service, the total area of ​ ​ the special public information center is 4 hectares, in the region there is a passenger hangar for comparing cars.
In general, according to the results of the first five-year plan, 48 projects worth 226 billion tenge were implemented, more than 7 thousand jobs were created and more than 7 billion tenge of tax revenues were transferred.
After 50 years, these projects can increase manufacturing exports to 10 billion US dollars, "the deputy said.
He noted that as part of the construction of the central-eastern corridor, 2 sections of roads of republican significance with a length of 145 km were put into operation.
According to the expert, the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" proposed by the head of state will lead to the strengthening of the middle class.
of these, 56 polling stations in regional centers, cities of the capital, Almaty, 28 in small towns and 26 in rural districts.	there are 56 polling stations in the regional centers , almaty and astana cities , 28 polling stations will be selected in small towns and 26 in the rural areas ,  she has added .
this is one of the largest untapped deposits in the world with a life of 50 years.
The loan agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the project "development of labor skills and stimulation of jobs") was ratified on February 5, 2016 by the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also, the Deputy Chairman of the CEC of Kazakhstan informed representatives of the foos-bank about the receipt of 44 appeals of individuals and legal entities to the Central Election Commission for the period from January 20 to February 22, 2016, "said the Minister of Finance.
According to a December study, the employment rate in September 2015 increased from 57 to 54%. the december survey showed that the proportion of the population , living at the expense of employment , increased to 57 from 54 % in september 2015 .
Also, according to the agency, the Turkish company Karavan Plus LLP reinvested a new line for the production of polypropylene pipes with a capacity of 500 tons per year.
According to the Department of Justice of Pavlodar region, 1,212 applications were received for registration of real estate rights.
A.Mamin also noted that the company implements a program of modernization of activities and reduction of expenses, the economic effect of which in 2015 amounted to 169 billion tenge.
The heads of state noted the need to implement the agreements reached during the first official visit of the President of Afghanistan to Kazakhstan in November 2015.
It should be noted that at the elections of deputies of the party meeting of the Republic of Kazakhstan 76 delegations are sent to control.
In the line of modernization of heat and water supply there are implemented 26 projects in the amount of 8,492,0 million tenge.
in the period 2015 under review. Compared to January-February, the number of migrants inside the country decreased by 16.2% and amounted to 67,339 people.
The President of the Senate expressed gratitude for the participation in the international conference "religion against terrorism," which will be held in the capital on May 31, in which parliamentarians, religious figures and heads of international organizations will take part.
This year, all the artists of Kazakhstan came to the event, a total of 150 arenas performed, and more than 3 thousand people came to visit, "said Z. Nizamutdinova.
in Zhambyl region there are 681 election commissions, including 12 regional, 205 armed, 464 precinct election commissions.
Today, the company produces 30 diverse turkey products and produces 10 thousand tons of poultry meat per year.
starting from the new year, salaries, social benefits and scholarships for state employees will be increased to an average of 30 percent.
Since 2017, every young person in the country will be able to receive free technical and professional education.
under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" - 171 people, "nұrly zhol" - 102 people, "green country" - 67 people, agribusiness - 42 people, a single development program for the region - 94 people, "business roadmap 2020" - 65 people, etc.;
In turn, at the end of 2015, the graduate compiled a mini-review of the single program "Business Roadmap 2020" and familiarized with the plans for 2016.
if the law is respected by all state bodies, citizens and all persons, then our society can be among the 30 developed countries, "the expert said.
an investor cannot visit one body in another, it is enough to go to the "one window," where 300 public services are provided.
nominal cash incomes of the population in real terms increased by 4.1% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2014.
the director of the state institution "Museum of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan" extended the term until December 31, 2016 inclusive.
The French concern alstom received an additional stake of 25% from ktc and brought its share in the joint venture to 50%.
Kazakhstan gladly accepted the decision of the international bureau of exhibitions to hold an international specialized exhibition of expo in 2017 in Astana, "he said.
It is important to note that in December 1995 this document became an innovation not only for Kazakhstan, but also for the entire CIS space.
Thus, in September 2015, at the suggestion of the results of the first review, a second review was initiated with experts to assess progress in Kazakhstan.
During the report, the population was informed about the upcoming March 20, 2016 elections to the Majilis and Maslikhats.
This year 5.5 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of 35 drinking water supply facilities and the restoration of sewage networks.
After the signing of the document in 2025, a single energy market will be created.
Over the past five years, we have attracted 2.9 times more investments in the manufacturing sector than in the previous 5 years, "he said.
As of June 1 of this year, more than a thousand civil servants are passing in all state bodies within the probationary period, "said K. Donakov.
Also, from April 1, the national bank publishes information on daily operations in the money market on its website, "said D. Akishev.
Recall, on March 2 of this year, Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin held a meeting with representatives of the European Bank.
In addition, commercial production at the Kashagan field will begin in 2016, and the expansion of the Caspian pipeline consortium has been completed.
Trial products released at the plant in November-December amounted to 120 cubic meters of aerated concrete.
chamber filter-press kf-1200 cleans 250 tons of raw juice from mechanical impurities, contaminated liquids and neutralizes dirt.
there are great frontiers ahead of us, one of which is Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
Note that today the online petition of the atomic project was signed by about 100 thousand people from 220 countries.
The report also notes that until 2020, as part of the regional development program, it is planned to build housing "rent without redemption."
It is planned that a large-scale project on the processing of agricultural products will be implemented within 5 years.
The same type of comprehensive project for the modernization of the heat supply system of the city of Rostec, including 8 projects, was also considered.
- It should be noted that on August 27, 2015 the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Y.Ityridyev and the General Director of Aecha yu.amano signed a country agreement on the creation of Aecha-tbu Bank.
Direct investments from Kazakhstan to Bulgaria during this period amounted to 12 million dollars. US dollars.
At the same time, he noted that the lease period of land does not exceed 25 years.
Therefore, I declare Thursday, June 9, a day of national mourning, "the head of state said in a statement in connection with terrorist acts in the city of Aktobe.
It is worth noting that there are 1006 production enterprises in the region, of which 88 are large and medium-sized.
According to M. Tuleuzhanov, in general, the technological capability of the plant in terms of raw materials reaches 70 tons of gold per year.
in particular, a list of 500 tour operators and convention centers operating in the Central Asian market was formed from among the priority countries.
these measures will create 20 thousand new jobs in the construction industry and will accelerate economic growth.
the state political program for supporting entrepreneurs "Business Roadmap 2020" is being implemented, directing the entrepreneurial industry to a certain direction.
39 indicators have not been achieved, and reporting data on 28 indicators will be published later, the minister said.
of these, $30 million will be allocated under the first component, which will be used to finance innovative projects.
3 cities and 11 districts of the region - Shymkent, Turkestan, arys - will supply 244 tons of environmentally friendly products to the metropolis, the report said.
To implement the institutional reform of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan, the project experts were presented with examples of European best practices.
in the last elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan 82% voted for the party "Nұr Otan" of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The Dialogue of Central Asia + Japan was established in 2004 at the initiative of the Japanese side and is aimed at strengthening political dialogue among member states, developing regional cooperation, supporting business, cultural and human exchange.
and 5 institutional reforms are the path of Kazakhstan's development, further social modernization and economic growth, despite the global financial crisis and political instability.
The construction of the pier is planned to be completed at the end of 2016, "said the head of the construction department of the Zhumagul bexar.
I. As Novaskin noted, over the years, export of products amounted to 15.5 billion tenge, 2735 jobs were created.
The nation's plan is 100 concrete steps. "
According to him, 234 candidates for deputies for 98 seats will be elected in parliament. "
In addition, by 2017, 80 people accounted for 30 tons of feed per hour.
Over 7 years of cooperation, Kazakhstan has upgraded its participation status from an ordinary partner to a co-chair.
The Dutch side expressed its readiness to assist in Kazakhstan's desire to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
According to him, 235 assets worth 78 billion tenge were sold as part of the second wave of privatization, while the republican budget lowered revenues in the amount of 7.6 billion tenge.
for internal decoration of the center under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" a loan in the amount of 3 million tenge was received.
Another 30 investors are working on expansion, "said A. Issekeshev.
The volume index for the transport industry in January-April 2016 amounted to 104.1%.
in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the Head of State said about stabilizing the growth of the economy, which will lead to Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries. "
According to the ambassador, in 2009 the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic amounted to about 200 million dollars, in 2014 - 1 billion 200 million dollars.
As you know, this idea was noted by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan in 2014 as the national idea of ​ ​ our state.
The production of speedy dishes of rainbow LLP in the North Kazakhstan region was carried out as part of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
129 applications of entities worth 83.3 billion tenge were also approved at the expense of the holding under the bank's financial recovery program.
It is worth noting that more than 100 thousand residents of Aktobe region will take part in the international exhibition.
Thus, the Education program achieved 20 indicators out of 23 planned target indicators.
the Chinese delegation consists of 150 athletes and official representatives, "said a representative of the PRC Student Sports Federation.
after updating the existing three units and bringing new units to industrial potential, the fuel deficit in 2018 will be replaced by a surplus. after upgrading of three existing refineries and reaching the industrial capacity of the new plants , the fuel shortage will be replaced by a surplus in 2018 .
Since April 1, the national bank publishes monthly the amount of interference in the foreign exchange market, information is posted on the website of the National Bank, "he said.
More than 20 years ago, partnerships began with the country team of Kazakhstan and the UN, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
Since 2016, the state budget has abolished the mandatory 20 percent mandatory pension payment to employees of the armed forces.
On the first day, the delegation visited a large plant of a state-owned corporation with a capacity of 300 thousand tons of sugar per year.
Another important factor is that the state subsidizes 10% of the loan interest rate for projects implemented in the priority sector of economic production in the framework of enterprises operating in rural areas.
to date, one observer from a foreign state has been added (this is 103 observers) and one observer from the ecu assembly of parliament (76 people), "said m.sarsembayev.
With the decision to create a customs union in 2010, trade between Kazakhstan and Belarus increased by 3 times compared to 2014.
67 billion tenge - through local executive bodies and 60 billion tenge - at JSC "Baiterek development."
In addition, the state revenue authorities received 6 declarations on money legalization in the amount of 948.8 million tenge without opening an account.
In addition, the state revenue authorities received 8 declarations on money legalization in the amount of 981.3 million tenge without opening an account.
for example, for 5 months of the current year, every second civil case was considered in a summary procedure.
After the adoption of the National Plan of 100 concrete steps, the project was immediately adapted and coordinated its activities in the areas specified in the program.
in total, the area of ​ ​ rented farmland for land users in the district is 610,475 hectares.
At the end of 2015, President Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of Afghanistan Mohammad Ashraf Ganimen met in the capital.
Currently, as part of an agreement with the education department of the capital, it is planned to build 5 kindergartens for 1,200 places, "said A.masakova.
content trading company exports meat and frozen semi-finished products worth $30 million to Iran.
At the meeting of the commission, issues of compliance with the rule of law and the effectiveness of the implementation of the "Program for the Development of Regions until 2020" and the Program for the Development of the Agro-Industrial Complex in Kazakhstan "Agrobusiness 2020" for 2013-2020 were discussed.
The Parliament Library was created in 1987 as part of the information and analytical center of the Supreme Council of the Kazakh SSR.
In the future, the plant plans to increase the volume of oil refining under the industrial development program to 500 thousand tons per year.
As it became known at the press conference, 74 projects worth more than 6 thousand new jobs worth 71 billion tenge are expected to be opened here.
1 . approve the attached text of the appeal of the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan to all participants in the electoral process (hereinafter - the appeal).
Agricultural producers of Akkola, Atbasar, beekeeping, Shortandin districts and Kokshetau presented 48 types of products.
Now, in anticipation of the March 20 elections, it is important for parties to get a mandate of voter confidence, "he said.
Tokayev informed about the international conference "religions against terrorism" on May 31, as well as about the XV meeting of the secretariat of the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in June 1.
centralized water supply in cities amounted to 87%, in rural areas - 52%, "the Minister of Finance said.
461 or 71.1% of the total number of permanent preschool organizations are located in rural areas, the number of children in them is 26024 or (60%).
reconstruction of the bridge, access roads and transport interchanges will be completely completed on September 1 by 3 months ahead of schedule.
In general, Kazakhstan officially joined the international organization in 2014 and today it includes 75 countries.
According to the Vice Minister, according to the state program, 115 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund to finance the construction of rental housing through the Kazakhstan mortgage company.
In 2015, the fixed capital of the Irgiz region received 5.3 billion tenge, which is 144.7% more than in 2014.
It is planned that the leaders of the event will take part in the work of ebr, "metrocash & carry," "jp morgan & co.," ", citigroup," "baker & mckenzie," "ernst & young," "ebr," "lukoil," "ebr."
Overall, the registration file is expected to achieve the planned participation rate of 100 countries.
It is worth noting that in South Korea Zhambyl intellectuals won 2 silver and 2 bronze awards.
According to e. Nugmanova, in the area it is planned to create a wind farm with a capacity of 50 MW worth about 24 billion tenge.
During 2015, significant legal work was carried out to prepare the legislative framework in order to bring the country to new economic, social, administrative and political development, "said A. Sadvakasova.
It is worth noting that at the initiative of the head of state in 2017, vocational education will be free.
According to the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, no later than 2017-2018, Kazakhstan may come to a positive dynamics of economic dynamics that occurred in 2012.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the need to clarify the republican budget for 2016 and the issues of making appropriate changes to state and sectoral programs.
The forum will be attended by representatives of more than 140 financial institutions from all regions of the republic and investors from 12 countries.
In 2012, a women's club of politicians was created in the Karaganda region, as well as the youth wing "Beekeeping Council Club" was opened.
The first five-year plan includes 2015-2019 projects for 55 years, the total cost of which will be 120 billion tenge and 9 thousand new jobs.
As a result, more than 60% of 140 existing investment projects were implemented in the first five-year plan of the current year.
At the same time, the president noted that "all 75 percent of revenues are provided by small and medium-sized businesses, which provide half of the population."
Recall, President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed an order declaring May 1 the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan on October 18, 1995.
11 appeals were excluded from consideration by the Ombudsman in connection with the trial, work is underway with the rest, "he explained.
During this order, Government Resolution No. 1509 of December 31, 2013 clarified the concept of reforming the regulatory framework for the construction of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, according to Tlegenov, work on financial support for entrepreneurs will continue in 2016.
The coordinating council of the partnership includes representatives of 20 organizations for the next event "Symbols of an independent state."
It is noted that the number of callers by phone is 284 thousand 970, who sent SMS messages about vacancies - 34 thousand 360, and through e-mail, web-, wap portal 14 thousand 753 messages were received.
Next year, we plan to complete the construction of projects begun in 2014, despite the introduction of a moratorium on the construction of new facilities.
net profit for individual "kaztransoil" in the first quarter of 2016 amounted to 18 billion 639 million tenge, which is 2.8% lower than the result of the first quarter of 2015.
The Agreement enters into force upon ratification by national parliaments in all 28 member States of the European Union.	the agreement will fully come into force when it is ratified by all 28 member states of the eu .	2,58
In addition, we sent invitations to the first leaders of the Central Election Commission of 18 foreign countries and adopted documents regulating the activities of international observers.	in addition , we sent invitations to the heads of central election commissions of 18 foreign countries , and adopted documents regulating the activities of international observers .	2,58
Given 2015, we can say that for our countries in the space industry has achieved complete success.	looking back in 2015 , we can say that it was not easy for the cooperation between our countries in the space sector , but at the same time it was very interesting .	2,58
In addition, in 2016, it was decided to chair Kazakhstan in all bodies of the union, except for the board of the commission.	kazakhstan will chair all the bodies of the eeu since 2016 , except for the board of the eurasian economic commission .	2,58
It is planned that the project will be implemented in 2015-2018 and 40 new permanent jobs will be created, "said B. Nurkenov.
Since 2005, the region has been serving in the Department of Defense of Pavlodar region.
As for attracting investments, at the end of 2015 investments in fixed assets amounted to 416 billion tenge. following the results of 2015 the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 416 billion tenge .
It turned out that only 5% of young people aged 18 to 34 years intend to produce new products.
Thus, in 2016, the minimum amount of pension payments (including the minimum pension and basic pension) will be 37,789 tenge.
According to the chairman of the central election commission, on January 20, the CEC approved the calendar indicator of the main measures.
The construction of two 108-apartment buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 8.2 thousand square meters was also completed.
In 2015, an Egyptian investor on behalf of the Gemini Holding group expressed interest in developing a resort area in the Mangistau region.
Contracting companies "Astana Expo-2017" signed with local producers 8 contracts for the supply of goods totaling 10 billion tenge and 3 memorandums of cooperation.
To begin the construction of a solar power plant worth 11 billion tenge, a plot of 30 hectares was allocated in the city of arys.
In 2015, the Aktep company regularly exports 200 tons of meat monthly.
According to experts, mortality from these nosologies will reduce life expectancy by 8 times.
Within the train "The M G_l_k Ate" we carry out explanatory work in regions by the new rules adopted on March 7.
In mid-February 2016, the Soviet-diagnostic train Healthy Kazakhstan was launched at remote stations in the Karaganda region.
this year, the acceptance of documents consists of three stages: from April 11 to May 13, 2016; from June 13 to July 29, 2016; from August 15 to September 30, 2016.
front-line aviation pilots flew in the sky for 40 hours, army aviation for more than 61 hours, transport aviation for 86 hours.
70 bills, 2 thousand acts of the president and government and 10 thousand central and local bodies of regulatory legal acts are submitted for examination annually, "said B. Imashev.
By the middle of the XXI century, we plan to achieve Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
Currently, 11 projects are being implemented in the decisive areas of "center-south," "center-east," "center-west."
In September 2014, state stakes of Astana, Kokshetau, Petropavlovsk, Kostanay, Shymkent and Kyzylorda airports were transferred to the company.
As you know, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took the initiative to create such a network at the 70th session of the UN General Assembly in September 2015.
Recall that in the framework of this program this year 14 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the sowing campaign for 2.3 million hectares.
41% of all world energy is used by buildings, 31% - production, 28% - transport of world energy. 41 % of the world 's energy is consumed by buildings , while industry consumes 31 % , transport - 28 % , so , energy efficiency issue will become sharper , " - said the minister .
A positive difference in interregional migration occurred in the city of Almaty (8586 people) and in Akmola (320 people), Kostanay (318 people), Mangistau (291 people), Pavlodar (280 people), Orenburg (83 people) regions.
First of all, the head of the region got acquainted with the work of the regional perinatal center No. 1.
The Association of Business Women conducted trainings at foreign enterprises with 1,100 businessmen as part of a business relations project, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
Also, 16 memoranda and agreements were signed in state bodies and economic entities of two regions.
The project capacity of 21.6 million tenge will be 600 tons of packing bricks and 200 tons of roof tiles.
By the middle of the XXI century, we plan to achieve Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
as of today, the reserve of foreign exchange reserves is $95 billion, which is half more than in the country, "said N. Nazarbayev.
For 25 years of independent development of Kazakhstan, each convocation of the parliament adequately fulfilled the mission of economic and political development, based on the requirements of our time. over the 25 years of independent kazakhstan , the parliament honorably fulfilled its mission to promote economic and political development in accordance with the requirements of the time .
Trade turnover between the countries in 2015 amounted to 55.9 million US dollars, which is 2.7 times more than in 2014.
In 2016-2018, loans from international financial organizations in the amount of 153 billion tenge will be attracted for the implementation of agro-industrial complex projects, the minister said.
Thus, today the working group of the congress secretariat will begin its activities, the first meetings of which are scheduled for June 1, "he said.
It is proposed to direct 25 billion tenge from the national fund to finance new investment projects and refinance loans of large industrial enterprises, "he said.
In the second direction of the program, 43 projects were financed from the total loan portfolio of priority sectors of the economy and manufacturing industry in the amount of 1903 million tenge.
According to the Prime Minister, if changes to the budget are approved, 2 anti-crisis programs will be adopted at an expanded government meeting on December 8, 2015.
Kazakhstan ranks 26th in the total trade turnover and is one of the 30 largest trading partners of the EU.
b.Saparbayev reported to the Head of State on the results of socio-economic development of the region for 2015 and prospects of development for the nearest period.
Since January 1, 2016, we index solidarity pensions by 2%, predicting the level of inflation.
11 projects to modernize heating facilities in Aktobe worth 3.3 billion tenge were implemented as part of the "Nұrly zhol" program.
He noted that the fact that the message was published on the eve of the Day of the First President on November 30, 2015 also has deep symbolic significance.
The daily audience of viewers of the Winter Universiade will reach 80 countries of the world and reach 1 billion people.
this year, metallurgy production increased by 13%, chemistry - by 3.2%, mineral fertilizers - by 3.2%, clothing - by 4%.
From June to August 2016, language training courses for teachers of English, Kazakh and Russian are held.
Exports from Kazakhstan to Serbia in 2015 amounted to $27.5 million, imports - $28.4 million.
Volume of gross agricultural output in January-April 2016. amounted to 444.2 billion tenge and increased by 2.6% compared to January-April 2015.
The 241 indicators achieved improved positions in international ratings and social indicators (life expectancy in terms of plan, quality of primary education, etc.).
In total, the Baikonur team with an academy of 35 cyclists.
you and Kazneftegaz are also faced with the task of starting oil production in October 2016.
- Despite the instability in the global economy, Kazakhstan has decided to raise wages of public sector employees by 40%.
Recall, on March 1, 1995, the President of Kazakhstan signed a decree on the creation of a new institute - the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the Presidential Council of Foreign Investors was established in 1998 as an advisory body.
As you know, the capital's forum has been the largest economic forum in the CIS and eastern Europe since 2008. as you know , the astana economic forum is the largest forum of the cis and eastern europe since 2008 .
manufacturing prices for industrial products in March 2016 decreased by 3.3% compared to December 2015.
According to the Governor, in the Kargaly region the index of agricultural products in 2015 amounted to 103%.
It is worth noting that in 2016, 2.6 billion tenge was allocated in the local budget for the provision of material assistance to veterans.
The nomination of candidates for the election of deputies of maslikhats will be held until February 19, 2016, "he said.
As part of the industrialization map, in 2016, 6 projects were implemented totaling more than 8 billion tenge with the creation of 413 permanent jobs.
26 cultural and art workers were awarded diplomas, prizes and badges.
The history of the development of Kazakhstani public procurement began in 1998, when a special law was adopted. the history of the development of kazakhstan 's government procurement system started in 1998 , when the first special law was passed .
In 2015, the company produced 319.8 thousand tons of products, this year it is planned to produce 640.0 thousand tons of phosphorus products.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. 39 highest awards of foreign countries were awarded to Nazarbayev.
According to him, funds in the amount of $12 billion will be spent on the second phase of November from 2017.
Recall that during the implementation of the project, the enterprise created 35 new jobs, provided with permanent jobs for local residents.
In addition, before this refinery, gold was produced only in the form of bricks - 12 kg.
Today, for investment purposes, the prospective subsoil area is 1 million square meters. km, "he said.
According to Director Murat Sarsenbayev, last year the plant produced 1.4 thousand tons of pesticides worth 3 billion tenge.
Also, on behalf of the head of state, the national company reduced the costs of the exhibition by another 53 billion tenge, preserving the functionality of the facilities.
According to the minister, at the suggestion of the EU until 2020, it is necessary to bring to 38% of the energy balance of the whole country.
20.9 billion tenge in 2016 and 16 billion tenge in 2017 will be allocated from the government reserve to compensate all deposits of white clients of housing construction bank.
if the price is below $30 per barrel, then the products can be considered at 74 tons.
The total volume of agriculture in Kazakhstan in 2015 increased by 4.4% and amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge. the volume of gross agricultural output increased by 4.4 % in 2015 and amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge .
Since 2015, Ruslan participated in various international competitions, gaining points for winning a ticket.
2 billion tenge was allocated from the local budget for the implementation of the entire engineering infrastructure, the Governor of the region said at a meeting with the population.
The Employment Roadmap 2020 program is aimed at increasing incomes and productive work.
The program "nanotechnology in metallurgy and robotics" includes 16 production plants included in the industrialization map of the Karaganda region.
It should be noted that 35 thousand soldiers of Kyzylorda region went to fight, now 64 of them are surrounded.
27 masters who took part in the festival were rated by playing the instruments they created, depending on the way they were created and the combination of sound.
The national company Kazagro invested $20 million in the fund, and the Hungarian Eximbank invested the same amount.
The United States has invested more than $7 billion in the economy of Kazakhstan and intends to continue financing domestic and foreign companies investing in Kazakhstan in 2016.
Also, the responsible persons were instructed to bring the entire state symbol in accordance with the current standard by July 1, 2016.
According to him, the extraordinary elections of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament, elected by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, will be held on March 21, 2016.
Last year, the first 400 tons of cathode copper were obtained from the complex for the processing of acid ores.
Of these, 9 documents worth $304 million were signed by the Baiterek holding group and its partners.
we issue toyota, hyundai, ssangyong, peugeot and others.
In the field of gas and electricity supply, the volume of production amounted to 238 billion tenge or 86.3% by 2014.
Also, by agreement, Khemko LLP will put into operation a kindergarten for 320 places in the Nauryzbay district.
It is worth noting that today in Almaty region there are 554 tourist reception facilities.
Recall that on behalf of the Head of State, free vocational knowledge has been introduced since 2017.
24 facilities are allocated for the construction of emergency and three-shift schools and kindergartens.
According to the results of the first five-year plan, the production of untreated gold increased to 50 tons and increased by almost 2 times. as a result of the first five-year plan the production of raw gold increased to 50 tons , which is more than 2 times .
that would create another 100 jobs.
The road cover is designed for 13 tons and the service life is 20-25 years, "said the speaker.
5 km of roads, for which 1.2 billion tenge is provided, will be reconstructed in Bayganinsky district.
The Nұrly Zhol program, published in 2014, showed that the state can work in advance.
When the design capacity reaches 1 million tons of products, the company will provide 70% of Almaty's demand.
The intention of the company global pro to invest became known during the business trip of the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Commissioner of Astana Expo-2017 rapil Zhoshybayev to the Argentine country in September 2015.
The event will be attended by 30 Indian companies in the field of engineering, construction, agricultural plant, pharmaceuticals.
Within 10 days, this employer will be able to purchase at a cadastral price with a 50 percent discount, "he said.
As part of the regional development program, 292 thousand square meters of housing were introduced, which is 2014% higher than in 13.3% of the year.
Recall, on November 30, President Nazarbayev sent a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan in a new real situation: growth, reforms, development."
they performed at the Olympic distance, swimming 1500 m and cycling 40 km, running 10 km.
According to the Deputy Chairman, to date, 90 countries and 15 major international organizations have confirmed their participation.
I, as a person working at the UN, am pleased to celebrate the 24th anniversary of our country's membership in the pair. as a person who works at the united nations , i am very happy to see that your country celebrates the history of the membership in the un and its contribution for the last 24 years .
- In accordance with the message of the head of state from January 1, 2016, the amount of disability benefits and in case of loss of the breadwinner increased by 25%.
more than 150 jobs were created in the workshop, products will be sold in the markets of the capital and neighboring regions.
The head of the region announced the interim results of the implementation of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" in the region.
According to the forecast of socio-economic development, approved at a meeting of the republican budget commission on August 29 of this year, the consumer price index amounted to 6-8%.
3 supported projects will be implemented in rural areas.
According to the results of commission assessments, 37 new partners of the capital were identified, in the near future a ceremony of presenting them with statuses will be held.
According to Director of Astana Murat Sarsenbayev, the launch of the new facility is scheduled for April 1 of this year.
According to the Almaty City Directorate of International Sports Projects, 54 states are registered to participate in the winter universiade in Almaty.
79 investment projects worth 1.5 billion tenge were approved for placement in industrial zones of districts and cities.
In his speech, the managing director noted that 36.8 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget, and the first tranche was received by the fund in December 2014 in the amount of 24.5 billion tenge.
in the region there are more than a thousand election commissions, which include more than 7 thousand people.
exemption from state regulation of container transportation will increase their volume in the next 5 years by more than 500 thousand tons.
Recall, on February 20, 2015, the Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities."
According to him, at the beginning of the year, the coverage of preschool education and education in the region is 97%.
the above agreements were signed on December 23, 2014 in Moscow at a meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
In 33 days, our train traveled 11 thousand kilometers, visited 33 settlements, among which was a large city and small settlements. for 33 days our train crossed 11 thousand kilometers , visited 33 localities , including large cities and small remote villages .
According to the press service of the Cossack Post, the brand has 4 inks, offset printing, perforation.
During the period of cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan since 1992 Kazakhstan has invested more than 6.8 billion dollars, "said E. Dossayev.
development of regions - 2020 "and" Nұrly zhol. "
Over the past 3 years, 72 investment and trade agreements have been signed between Kazakhstan and Germany for a total amount of about 4 billion euros, 12 investment projects for a total amount of 700 million euros have been implemented.
According to him, 23.5 billion tenge has been allocated for investment projects in order to support agricultural producers over the past 3 years.
- In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, a new model of remuneration for civil servants is introduced from January 1.
Recall that the entire party parliamentary group on Kazakhstan was created in the UK parliament on October 12, 2015.
$ 4 in financial support if the business idea is important in the future.
100 concrete steps to implement five institutional reforms. "
This year, 70 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the improvement and road construction of this district center.
the memorandum provides for cooperation of organizations and attracting Chinese investments in priority industrial projects of Kazakhstan in the amount of up to $2 billion, the national holding said.
The commission also offered to help Kyrgyzstan, where an earthquake occurred in 2015.
also 245 drafts and 67 descriptions of state emblems and 750 versions of the national anthem were received from the drawings.
In 2015, 36 new business projects were implemented in the region, local entrepreneurs received loans in the amount of 91 million 800 thousand tenge to expand their business.
The total length of national roads in the Zhambyl region is 1237 kilometers. the length of the roads of the national importance in zhambyl region is 1237 kilometers .
in the future, 25% of production is planned to be carried out in Kazakhstan, and the remaining 75% - in the customs union and Ukraine. in the future , 25 % of the production will be sold in kazakhstan , and the remaining 75 % - in the countries of the customs union and ukraine .
1 . Transfer of publicly owned agricultural land to private ownership by auction.
Recall, on February 20, 2015, the Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities."
The World Bank identified Kazakhstan as a state - 19 reforms in seven out of ten areas.
The competition will be attended by 15 best tank and motorized rifle crews of the teams of the regional commands "capital," "south," "east," "west" and airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since 2015, I have been the official representative of the world famous designer Karim Rashid.
currently, 65% of taxes received by the local budget come from small and medium-sized businesses, "the report said.
as well as 25 years of antimonopoly regulation of the Republic of Kazakhstan this year, which, of course, is an important event.
In accordance with the new concept of kha development, work on a new mechanism has begun in all regions: 9 regional, 40 city and 177 district councils, "the President said.
In 1998 he graduated from the Moscow State Aviation Institute with a degree in space aircraft and booster units.
In accordance with this decision, the first 12 observers of the ecu/diakb mission were accredited to the central election commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he said.
In the third direction, 129 people were trained, 21 employees took part in retraining courses for social workers.
Together with the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region 43 offices of vocational guidance are open and functioning.
As part of the Industrialization Map for 6 years and 2 months of 2016, goods worth 6 trillion tenge were produced, including 1.6 trillion tenge in 2015, he said.
At the same time, in 2016 there is a symbol of stabilization in the foreign exchange, money and general financial market.
over the past 5 years, the number of cars in the country has increased from 3.1 million to 4.5 million people, "the minister said.
we still do not know many pawnshops, and despite this, we still acquired 110 kg of gold. many pawn shops do not know about us , but , despite this , we have already bought 110 kg of gold .
thus, a total of 287 international observers and representatives of foreign media from 45 countries are currently accredited.
According to the akim, the funds allocated from the local budget in the amount of 3 billion tenge are aimed at reducing food costs.
also within the framework of the instrument - in terms of the number of projects, interest rate subsidies saw an increase of 29, 4%.
we, in Malaysia, have a small population, only 65% vote.
30% of equipment will be subsidized without taxes if peasant equipment wants to purchase. if agricultural producers want to buy equipment , 30 % of the value of this technique will be subsidized by the ministry of agriculture without collateral , without advance payment .
Also, according to the memorandum agreed with these companies, the stationary Mukanov park in Almaty will be reconstructed in the amount of 200 million tenge.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, since 2010, the system of technical regulation of the construction industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been reformed. in accordance with the request of the head of state since 2010 reforming of a system of technical regulation of construction branch of kazakhstan is carried out .
During the event, about 260 vacancies in the field of services, education, health care, construction were presented.
77% of foreign investment has been attracted to the manufacturing sector since 2005 to implement the program, "said the head of the department.
materials on khp activity - 18%, on kdp activity "white road" - 15%, on the activity of JV "unit" - 14%, on the activity of dsp - 17%, on the activity of khpp "aul" - 14%.
Since July 1 of this year, I have been supporting the law of agricultural entities on the provision of land to private property. i support the law , which will be introduced on july 1 this year on private ownership of land by the subjects of agriculture .
fourth, in 2016, pension assets should be transferred to private Kazakh or foreign companies.
after the president signed the relevant decree, 819 people from neighboring countries will become citizens of Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh side allocated 230 hectares of land from the Baidibek region for the implementation of the project.
At 100 steps of the President of Kazakhstan "it is important that the fourth section is devoted to all issues of conformity.
compared to the first five-year plan, the project increased 2.5 times, and job creation - 3 times. compared with the first five-year period the number of projects increased by 2.5 times , while the number of created jobs increased by 3 times .
The initiative to adopt a universal declaration belongs to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the initiative was put forward in 2010 during the first nuclear security summit in Washington.
KSK has already been prepared for 19, construction work will begin this year, "said A. Issekeshev.
taking into account foreign experience, a probationary period according to the formula 3 + 3 was approved, "said MT.
In the first half of 2017, we plan to launch a glass plant with an annual capacity of 197 thousand tons. in 2017 , we expect to launch the glass factory with capacity of 197 thousand tons of finished products per year .
In 2015, 120 thousand tons of diesel fuel and 24 thousand tons of fuel oil for heating were supplied to agriculture, "he explained.
the second standard of the coat of arms was adopted in 2008 and is still in use, "said Dugalov.
we are ready to ensure an increase and are ready to raise to 10 million tons without any technical action, "he said.
To date, agreements have been concluded with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the amount of 11.0 billion tenge on 2 priority investment projects, the report said.
Since 1993, the company has been producing railway products: gondola cars, grain cars, platforms.
I was on my priority working commission and the compulsory health insurance fund will begin work on January 1, 2017.
it is on Kazakhstan that the dialogue of the largest states of the planet with a population of about 3 billion people will depend.
The head of state emphasized that it is necessary to learn to live at a price of $30 per barrel of oil.
According to Dauren Shalbaev, 12 new investment projects will be implemented in the industrial zone, the total cost of projects will be 1.2 billion tenge.
the production level for value added to automotive facilities per employee reached 150 thousand dollars.
In 2016, under the Yrys program, it is planned to create 20 dairy farms, plans and tasks were set in the districts and work is underway.
for example, the Nұr Otan party will hold its congress on January 29, and other parties are preparing for their congresses.
Compared to last year, the number of students who scored 100 or more points was 14.32%, in 2015 - 13.2%.
For violation of migration legislation, 170 thousand foreign administrations were brought to justice, of which 11 thousand were removed from the country, "the minister said.
On February 5, 2016, Governor of North Kazakhstan region Yerik Sultanov met with representatives of diplomatic missions accredited in Kazakhstan in the capital as part of the "diplomatic business club."
The Protocol on the accession of the Armenian state to the agreements was approved by the decisions of the President of Kazakhstan of November 27, 2015.
this decision shall enter into force 30 calendar days from the date of its publication.
we are moving towards the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries, without stalling on horizontal obstacles.
in addition to household appliances, the military brought 20 sweet gifts and toys for children.
during this time there is an increase in the trend in the number of researchers, that is, from 2011 thousand to 18 thousand in 2014 to 25.8 thousand.
I want to note that the trade balance on the tire in Kazakhstan is minus 382 million dollars, and in Russia - 1.170 billion dollars, "said E. Muratov.
It is planned that this year the program of the Army International Games-2016 will include 23 competitions in field, air and sea skills.
According to the entrepreneur, the renewal of candidates for deputies of the Majilis is 60% positive.
It was also noted that 80% of water consumed in the Zhambyl region falls on the border Kyrgyzstan.
In 2015, athletes of the region took part in the championships of the Republic of Kazakhstan in rhythmic gymnastics, having won 8 gold, 25 silver and 16 bronze medals.
Currently, the second campaign of the election campaign is underway - this is the registration period, which will last until February 19. the second stage of the election campaign - is the stage of registration , which will last until february 19 .
It is expected that the plant will be opened in March 2017. the total cost of the project is 12.8 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that in 2015 as a result of application of new technologies in the field of road construction 40 million tenge were saved.
The total investment of new and developing companies for 2016-2020 will be about 215 billion tenge, "the speaker said.
- mirnova Irina Vladimirovna, Almaty city, director of school lyceum No. 48
In 2014, the plant produced 7 tons of gold, which was sold to the National Bank of Kazakhstan to replenish gold and foreign exchange reserves. in 2014 , the plant refined about 7 tons of gold , which was sold to the national bank of kazakhstan .
The length of 7 thousand km of the great silk road from China to Rome passes through Kazakhstan. the great silk road passing over 7 thousand kilometers from china to rome through kazakhstan , proves that kazakhstan is historically linked to this idea , " - he concluded .
In 2015, 7.2 thousand people were trained, of which 5.1 thousand students or 70.7% were employed.
Recall that the committee crirsco includes 9 national organizations that form states and regions: cim (canada), jorc (Australia and New Zealand, sme (aksh), perc (Europe), samrec (oar), imec (chile), mpigm (Mongolia), naen (Russian), cbrr (Brazil).
We elect 301 deputies, including 36 deputies of the regional maslikhat, 62 deputies of the city maslikhat and 203 deputies to the city maslikhat. we will elect 301 deputies , including 36 deputies of the regional maslikhat , 62 deputies of the city maslikhats in four cities and 203 deputies of the district maslikhats .
The funds will be used to finance the budget deficit for 2016, "Minister of Finance Bakhyt Sultanov said.
more than a thousand election commissions were organized in the region, which include more than 7 thousand people.
According to the press service, in 2015, under the regional development program, 21 multi-storey housing were overhauled in the amount of 291.4 million tenge.
from. According to Shakenova, the central store in Pavlodar is visited by about 30 thousand people a month.
it is planned to issue 370 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 286.8 thousand hectares for sale at auctions.
the total mortality rate also decreased (according to the plan - 7.62, in fact 7.52 per 1000 population).
According to the World Investment Report, total foreign direct investment in the world decreased by 16% in 2014. according to the world investment report by unctad ( united nations conference on trade and development ) in 2014 total foreign direct investment ( fdi ) in the world fell by 16 % .
In addition, JSC "Capital" plans to implement work on stone processing in the amount of $5 million.
the document provides for the supply of 50 units of armored wheeled equipment produced at the Kazakhstan Paramount Engineering LLP plant in the capital.
unemployed among graduates of educational organizations up to 29 years old will be sent to youth practice.	youth practice will be available for unemployed graduates from educational organizations not older than 29 years .	2,69
flounder fish "10% of the rate of 14% of the loan received is repaid by the state, and the enterprise pays only 4%.
In his message to the people on November 30, 2015, the Head of State called on Kazakhstani youth to actively know workers.
these are people aged 18 to 50 years from Aktobe, West Kazakhstan and Karaganda regions.
It is noted that the next meeting of the working group is expected in 2016 in China.
So, in 2015, the average price of brent crude oil decreased by 47.1% and amounted to 52.4 dollars per barrel.
the main source is the vehicle, and their emissions amount to at least 231 thousand tons.
According to the international energy agency, Finland's energy intensity in 2015 was 5 times lower than in Kazakhstan, he said.
During the subbotnik, 22 thousand trees were planted as part of the annual all-Ukrainian action "National Tree Planting Day."
According to the results of the five-year work of the museum, 968 archaeological finds found in the mound were prepared.
Recall that every year in Kazakhstan about 5 million people are vaccinated against infectious diseases, including 1.3 million children.
our agency opens 5 representative offices abroad, which is convenient for working closely with foreign investors and explaining our benefits. our agency will open 5 offices abroad to work more closely with foreign investors , to explain our preferences , privileges .
there are 5 mobile cranes, 6 port cranes capable of lifting cargo of various sizes.
In two months, 50 agricultural cooperatives were created, uniting more than 1,200 participants with the participation of atameken.
Bidding will be held on May 20, 2016 on an electronic platform on the gosreestr.kz web portal of the state property register under the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
trade turnover between Aktobe and Hungary is about 10 million dollars.
At the ministerial conference to be held in December 2015, Kazakhstan will officially be named its member.
the economic habit of Kazakhstanis is also changing, labor productivity has increased by 60%, "N. Nazarbayev said.
Recall that the foundation of the Shymkent Medical College was laid in 1930 as a medical college.
According to him, the idea of ​ ​ n.nazarbayev about the creation of the eeo was voiced in 1994 at Lomonosov Moscow State University.
wind power sources will begin to produce 1 million kW of electricity per hour.
the number of pedagogical workers in preschool organizations and preschool mini-centers amounted to 5881 thousand people, including 55.3% with higher pedagogical education and 44.7% with secondary special education.
in addition, the traditional decoration of the city uses small architectural forms with a total number of 100 pieces.
at the same time, the total number of participating teams in the national futsal student games amounted to 37 higher educational institutions and 7 colleges.
the precinct composition of polling stations was approved at a meeting of the maslikhat of the capital on February 10 and published in the local press.
Recall, on March 20 of this year, elections to the Majilis of the parliament and maslikhats of all levels will be held.
In the village of Ryskulovo, the former meat processing plant Merki Meat with a capacity of 250 tons of sausage and 262 thousand cans of canned food (stews) per year are reconstructed.
In 2018, the company plans to launch the first base oil and fat plant in the region.
Volume index for the transport industry in January-March 2016. amounted to 104.1%.
this made it possible to cover 100% with competitive control, which is 60 times more than the volume of control over the previous year.
As part of the first five-year plan idmb, 71 facilities were launched for a total of 552.7 billion tenge, 6.6 thousand new jobs were created.
In 2015, the company working with investors was reinvested, thus, the products produced increased.
an agreement was signed with the Russian polymetal company to process 1 ton of 800 kg of gold, "he said.
on my instructions, an action plan was considered and developed in case of a decrease in the price of oil to $30, 20 per barrel. on my instructions , options for action in the case of reduction in the price of oil up to 30 , and up to 20 dollars per barrel have been developed and thought out .
irrigated land was allocated for the implementation of a business project to grow 200 cows for farming.
As part of the construction of industrial facilities, 229 billion tenge of investments have been attracted to the region over the past six years, the head of the region said.
The composition of 206 district election commissions created in the region includes 32 regional, 55 city and 119 district election centers.
therefore, it would be advisable to make the project at least 450 thousand tons, "concluded E. Muratov.
Last year, trade due to the global economic crisis halved and amounted to $666 million.	last year , according to s. abdykarimov ,  due to the negative effects of the global financial crisis , lower prices for kazakhstan export commodity positions , the overall situation in the world , the trade turnover between the two countries fell almost twice , " amounting to $ 666 million .
This will provide 92 thousand jobs, "said Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin.
In 2016, it is planned to complete the construction of the incinerator "Kazakhstan their silicone."
It will be held for the first time on May 26 in a private building - the concert hall "Kazakhstan."
The funds will be used to finance the budget deficit for 2016, "Minister of Finance Bakhyt Sultanov said.
the parties discussed country, regional and global contexts related to the elections to be held on 20 April this year.
In 2006, he was appointed deputy chairman of the board of the aerospace committee of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also, the chairman of the regional commission said that during the elections in Pavlodar region there are 569 polling stations.
after the airline submits the necessary documents, the civil aviation committee will issue a permit within 30 days.
The nation's plan - 100 steps - is not just a step.
The company tikkurila, a Finnish paint manufacturer, has been operating in the world for more than 153 years. tikkurila company - finnish paints manufacturer , which operates for more than 153 years .
According to the Governor, the gross regional product of Almaty in 2015 exceeded 8.5 trillion tenge.
V. Matvienko also announced the plans of Russian parliamentarians to take part in the international conference "Religions against Terrorism," which will be held in the capital on May 31.
According to him, in 2016 work continues in the direction of Pavlodar-capital, the highway of Pavlodar-Semipalatinsk section is being repaired.
In addition, this year 1,641 drivers and 1,108 conductors will be trained at the center of qualification of transport specialists.
sugar beet production will grow by 11%, plant crops - by 5%, vegetables and berries - by 3%.
The Ministry of Finance has been tasked with introducing a universal preparatory statement since 2017. according to the ministry of finance , the task is to prepare for the introduction of the universal declaration of 2017 .
40 nationalities were nominated, 71.4 per cent were men and 28.6 per cent were women.	according to him , there are representatives of 40 nationalities among the nominated candidates .	2,72
During this time, Kazakhstanis helped solve the problem of providing housing for more than 100 thousand families.	during this time , it helped to solve the housing problem of more than 100 thousand kazakhstani families .	2,72
The President noted that from January 1 the country will be in a new instinctual environment, which will implement 5 most important reforms.	the president of kazakhstan has noted that since january 1 this year the country lives under a new institutional framework to ensure implementation of planned 5 important reforms .	2,72
In 2014, 2,784 scientific articles were published in an international journal, which is 1.5 times more than last year, the head of the fund said.
Thus, in 2014, 15 thousand services were provided, and by the end of 2015 - twice, "said Shotanov.
For example, 166 million tenge will be spent on the construction of 2 km of quarterly roads in the microdistrict "young wing" of the Turksian region.
According to the First Vice-Minister, the World Bank has invested more than $6.8 billion in Kazakhstan since 1992.
Since January 2016, the Ministry of Investment and Development has been working in the field of "one window for investors."
In particular, a biocorrection plant with a capacity of 7,500 tons per year will be built in the agro-industrial zone in Aktobe.
It should be noted that over the past 10 years, the total volume of attracted investments amounted to $2 billion.
The Eurasian Bank for Reconstruction and Development will allocate $50 million for the development of women's sports in Kazakhstan.
In order to fulfill these tasks, this year 3 billion 429 million 820 thousand were allocated for the management of culture. Tenge, for 11 months mastered by 99.7%.
According to the akim of the district, the asphalt concrete plant of the limited liability partnership Taraz Transport Route was included in the regional industrialization map in 2015.
today there are 400 million cars in the world, and the bicycle is 3.5 times larger.
The volume index for the communications industry in January-April 2016 amounted to 95.5%.
According to the results of 2015, the volume of gross agricultural products in the Irgiz region amounted to 7.5 billion tenge.
According to him, in 2015, students of colora (aksh) and Australia participated in the expedition.
According to the Ministry of Finance, last year the deficit of the republican budget decreased, amounting to 912 billion tenge or 2.2%.
therefore, I declare tomorrow Thursday, June 9th, a day of nationwide mourning.
I announce that a new project will begin in 2017 - the program "Free vocational education for all."
In 2015, the volume of funding under the program "Business Roadmap" increased by 12%, 1.9 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of activities.
I am sure that many voters will come to the polls on March 20 to form the highest professional meeting of the parliament, "said B. Altabaeva.
As a result, the capacity of the Kazakhstan-China pipeline will be from 30 to 55 billion cubic meters per year, "he said.
In 2013, we accepted 48 students studying in two main specialties. Park.
For this, Kazagro "allocated 25 billion tenge from the special reserve of the government and 100 billion tenge from budget funds through the bonds of the holding," he said.
In 1936, due to communist repressions, thousands of Poles were in serious trouble and became refugees.
Also, the volume of investments in fixed assets increased by 28% and amounted to 55.9 billion tenge.
It is expected that in the near future the construction and commissioning of a kindergarten for 280 places in the village of Sholakkorgan will be completed.
100 specific steps. "
The plan for 2016-2020 provides for the privatization of 783 companies in Kazakhstan, of which 217 companies belong to the Samruk-Kazyna group of companies.
This year Kazakhstan was visited by 30 speakers and more than 400 delegates from 50 countries.
at one time I was appointed secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan at 39 years old, when I was 40 years old. in my time , i became a secretary of the communist party of kazakhstan , when i was 39 years old .
today, March 20, from 7.00 to 20.00, elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats will be held at 9840 polling stations.
It is planned that with the full launch of the project, 25 citizens will be provided with permanent jobs, "he said.
On December 1, the head of state will take part in the opening ceremony of the military history museum in Astana, as well as in solemn events dedicated to the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a gala concert of the festival with the participation of military orchestras of Shu member states will be held on June 8 in front of the capital's opera house.
It is worth noting that in 2015 a 6 of events was carried out with the participation of military personnel of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
We remind that the accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations will be carried out by the central election commission until the end of the current day of 2016, that is, until March 14.
The volume of products in the field of water supply amounted to 11.5 billion tenge or 90.7% by 2014.
To date, 677 women entrepreneurs have been trained at Nazarbayev University and have been invited to the best universities in the world as lectionists.
the material and technical base of the workshop - up to 300 tons of frozen fish.
The meeting considered the implementation of Kazakhstan's national security strategy in 2015, as well as the implementation of migration policy.
Currently, 240 electronic services and services have been implemented on the e-government portal.
However, this year more than 20 thousand representatives of other nationalities studied the state language.
23 thousand disabled people live in Aktobe region, including two thousand children under 16 years old. there are more than 23 million disabled people in aktobe region , including nearly two thousand children under 16 years old .
the building is still separately heated, but since 2016 it is planned to connect it to the district heating system.
As a result, 13 thousand 700 waiting lists will be provided with rental housing of local executive bodies.
Recall that the action "Gift to the National Museum" started on March 18, 2015 at the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
innovative business activity will increase to 20%, the share of innovative products - up to 2.5%.
Recall that earlier the committee said that kazrc will join the members of crirsco in April 2016.
The work on subsidizing the agro-industrial complex by state assistance to the food industry was re-established in 2015. it is a very important tool of the state support - the agriculture subsidizing system , which was substantially reformed in 2015 .
kmg and cefc participate in the newly created joint venture with a ratio of 49 and 51 percent, respectively.
56% of candidates work in state institutions, organizations and enterprises, 38% - in commercial structures, 6% - in other industries.
The President of the Senate was briefed on the activities of the mission, consisting of 11 experts and 28 long-term observers.
as a result of these projects, the volume of production increased by 31 thousand tons, and the total expected financial profit - 300 billion tenge.
Among the 25 participating teams are Australia, Germany, Holland, Ireland, Kazakhstan, Singapore and Aksh.
According to UNESCO, "about $50 billion a year is asked to provide universal basic education in poor countries."
a single and group flight by helicopter es-145 shows Colonel Syzdykov and an early Zhumagaliyev.
As of February 12, 516 candidates were nominated in 206 districts, of which 361 were self-nominated, and from 155 political parties. as of february 12 , in 206 districts 516 candidates have been put forward , 361 people are self-nominated , and 155 candidates are from the political parties .
Last year, the head of state instructed to reduce administrative personnel by 10%, we implemented it and reduced costs.
Recall that in 2014 Kazakhstan became the coordinator of the program for creating the tourist product "Turkic Council": the modern silk road. "
the company plans to build a plant for the production of high-tech high-grade limestone with a capacity of 500 thousand tons per year.
during the construction of the project, 50 jobs will be created, and during the implementation - 13 permanent jobs.	during the construction it is planned to open 50 job places , and 13 permanent jobs ,  - the head of the region reported .
100 million people cannot find housing, 300 million - unemployed, 1 billion - suffer from hunger.
The construction of the city mosque for 500 people will be completed, and in June it will be transferred for the benefit of residents.
secondly, as the expert noted, the target requirement for Kazakhstan is to enter 30 developed countries by 2050.
In order to microcredit entrepreneurial initiatives in rural regions it is planned to provide 500 million tenge. 500 million tenge will be spent for micro-entrepreneurial initiatives in rural areas .
28 potential participants are registered in Pavlodar region and 4 enterprises are already working.
now any investor can receive 350 public services from the CES without visiting government agencies.
The event was attended by 100 scientists from Kazakhstan, Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkey, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also spoke about the country's plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
According to the Minister of Energy, Kazakhstan occupies a leading position in the world uranium market - about 40% of the market.
new sweeping machines will help to export more than 64 million cubic meters from the city. m of snow and garbage.
they intend to direct all forces to Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
Petropavlovsk provides for the construction of 5 mini-football pitches and 3 gym complexes.
So, in 1991, there were 10898 cases of mumps, which amounted to 84 per 100 thousand population. 68
members of the delegation visited, first of all, the regional children's perinatal center No. 4 in the nursultat microdistrict.
By the end of the year, 2 more mini-centers with 270 children will be opened in the city.
64 projects totaling KZT9.2 bn were approved and implemented at the means of industrial infrastructure development.
In the period from 2016 to 2020, the country's budget will receive about 240 billion tenge, "- noted K. pockets.
The head of state will meet with the Prime Minister of the Dutch Kingdom Mark Rutte, who will visit the country on an official visit on December 2.
If last year 1 billion foreign investments were attracted to the region, then this year we will increase this figure by seven times.
For example, in the 2012 elections, women registered as candidates for deputies of the maslikhat accounted for 23%, this year - 26%.
9 of them - from public associations (including political parties), 11 - from individuals, 8 - from banks, 1 - from the regional election commission.
of these, 153 ecu/diakb observers, 1 from the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking countries, 1 from a foreign state.
In total, within the framework of the program, the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan received 18,537,7 million tenge for the 36 of facilities. in size.
Index of volume by industry "trade" in January-April 2016. amounted to 94.1%.
In total, in 2016 it is planned to implement 8 projects worth $104 million and to create 360 jobs.
of these, 25 projects are being implemented, 30 projects are being implemented with the participation of foreign investors.
When submitting the draft republican budget for 2016 to parliament, the price of a barrel of oil was considered within $40.
According to him, in addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 117 foreign representatives from 27 countries.
of the total amount, 178.9 billion tenge was allocated to finance the bank's subjects, which is 19% more than in 2014.
In the Spring Autumn 2016 season, higher education institutions in Kokshetau, Taraz and Semey joined the games of the National Futsal Student League.
The cadastral hectare of land will cost 55 thousand tenge, we will pay 10 percent with installments up to 50 years, "he said.
the school has 202 teachers, including 125 teachers, 16 curators, 8 educators and 17 foreign workers.
Since 2013, he worked as managing director - member of the board of the Baiterek holding.
As part of the new road, the reconstruction of 62 km of republican roads is planned, "the report said.
and the proportion of children enrolled in inclusive education is planned to increase from 15.2 per cent to 20 per cent.
- Indeed, in the message of the head of state dated November 30, 2015 it was noted that from 2017 free technical education will be introduced.
According to the Vice Minister, as of March 19, about 14 thousand Kazakhstani citizens will take part in the elections abroad.
the number of unemployed people of working age amounted to 450.7 thousand people, of which 44% were men, 56% were women.
You participated in the summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, held in 2010 in the capital.
In addition, 847 million US dollars were involved from foreign investors through the fund with our participation, "he said.
The ice arena is one of the complexes of the 28th World Winter Universiade 2017 and seats 12 thousand spectators.
From January 1, 2016, the Academy of Justice will work at the Supreme Court.
5 people received loans, 7 people are in agreement, "said the head of employment and social programs of the city.
about 468 thousand citizens of Kazakhstan work in them, which is 93.3% of the total number of employees.
In 2015, the purchase of grain for feed by poultry farms was subsidized from the National Fund.
Next year, the size of social benefits and disability scholarships will increase by 25%, the head of state said.
Before the implementation of the strategy, the share of women in business was 38%, now - 50%.
As it became known during the meeting, the construction of the intermediate station "Kaskelen" with a capacity of 220 kV transmission line was completed in the region.
This year, thousands of enterprises will be opened, 500 places of production of new products, we have already begun to produce products that were not previously produced in Kazakhstan. this year , more than a thousand new enterprises , more than 500 new brands have appeared in kazakhstan .
As a result, 124 potential investment documents totaling $6 billion were signed at international business forums organized in 2015, "Karmanov said.
In total, 30 complex medals were won, the Karaganda and South Kazakhstan regions received the largest number of prizes.
the first stage is the production of 60 thousand units of equipment, which is planned for mid-2018.
center with 15 "green" innovations: heating, solar panels and collectors, energy-efficient pump.
British deputies were also told about the early elections on March 20 in Kazakhstan, "the report said.
N.Nazarbayev also noted that over the past 10 years life expectancy has increased from 64 to 73 years.
For example, KazMunaigas successfully implements 7 projects to optimize the mode of starting white wells, manage inefficient reserves, optimize drilling and other costs.
During the period of the parliament from January 21 to March 24, 2016, the Senate considered and adopted 57 laws.
This year, within the framework of the industrialization map, it is planned to implement 14 projects with the creation of 120 thousand jobs.
The construction of a plant for the production and processing of service glass with a capacity of 197 thousand tons per year was started last year.
The volume of industrial products in the manufacturing industry amounted to 666.3 billion tenge, in January-December 2014 - 96.9%.
2 . the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to take measures to organize the twenty-fourth session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, "the text of the order says.
He noted that in 2015 more than 30 thousand SMEs were served and there are clear results.
As noted in the "Tour Westby," before the end of the election, representatives of Norway visited 10 polling stations.
As you know, on October 31, 2015, signed by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, the law "On Agricultural Cooperation" was adopted.
It is planned that by 2020 the volume of processing of amey cargoes will be 4.4 million tons per year.
3 . Removal of restrictions on the use of leased agricultural land.
For these purposes, as part of the Production 2020 business support program, a total of 622.3 million tenge was granted preferential loans in the amount of 320 million tenge.
According to him, the total value of the bank's investments in Kazakhstan today is more than 7 billion dollars.
By tradition, on May 1, representatives of many nationalities who will hold a traditional holiday will gather on the square.
And last 2015, 113 projects worth 2 billion 940 million tenge were financed, this year funds will be allocated to subsidize 95 projects worth 2 billion 900 million tenge.
In our opinion, for the successful implementation of 5 institutional reforms, it is necessary to support this initiative, "the politician said.
of which 157.5% or 71.3 billion tenge came to the national budget, 121.6% or 9 billion tenge - to the local budget.
all graduates are 100 per cent employed and appointed to military positions after graduation.
The head of state set the task by 2021 to become one of the 50 low-mobility countries in the world. the fact that the president set the task that by 2021 we should become one of 50 countries in which the lowest level of corruption , i think this is an achievable task .
According to scientists, by 2020, 50% of the world's population will be "digital children."
Recall, on September 30, 2015, def published a competitiveness rating for 2015-2016.
since January of this year, the Plan of the Nation 100 concrete steps. "
In October 2014, the Law "On Road Traffic" entered into force, which contains a norm according to which passengers are prohibited from leaving the vehicle without the permission of the employee in the event of a stop of an employee of the internal affairs bodies.
for example, employees of enterprises and villagers, pensioners and unemployed are sold 20 tenge for a piece of bread.
In addition, Yessimov noted that the construction of international pavilions is at an active stage and will be completed on November 1 of this year.
The head of state noted that over the years of independence, the economy of Kazakhstan has developed 21 times, incomes of the population have grown 19 times.
103.5 billion tenge was allocated to employers for these purposes, which is 7% more than in 2014, "said Duissenova.
Compared to last year, the incidence of this disease decreased by 13%, "the report said.
investments in Saudi Arabia over the past 10 years amounted to $94 million, last year they amounted to $8 million.
Since the new school year, 26 thousand first-graders will receive training in new educational programs.
At the same time, the growth rate of investment in the real sector of the economy is 86%, "the report said.
Kazakh Minister reported to the Head of State on the results of the national company's activities for 2015 and plans for the near future.
By 2040, the Saudi Arab kingdom will completely abandon the use of fossil fuels.
According to Director of Astana Murat Sarsembayev, the commissioning of the plant is scheduled for April 1, 2016.
In 2016, eastern Kazakhstan will continue the program of creating dairy farms and developing dairy reception centers.
in our country, the main energy carrier is 55%, natural gas 22%, oil 19% and a hydroelectric power station 3%, the minister said.
Note that the volume of investments amounted to 2.8 billion tenge, of which 60% are investors' own funds.
The Chairman of the Board also noted that since 2010, 71 thousand guarantees worth 2 billion tenge have been issued to enterprises that do not have tax conditions.
The action started on the site of the central communications service under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 10 hours 25 minutes 25 seconds.
Currently, we are working with a factory for the production of 2 million tons of poultry meat per year in China, "said D. Akhmetov.
Last year, the company allocated 240 million tenge for gas supply to the village of Ongar, Don rural district, on the territory of which the enterprise operates.
Naei also open 5 foreign offices "kaznex invest": New York, Dubai, Frankfurt, Istanbul and Beijing.
more than 29 thousand proxies, as well as more than 27 thousand party activists, will take part in the work of all headquarters.
Most of the victims are in the field of construction (20%), the mining and metallurgical complex (18%), "said the head of the department.
According to him, this draft consists of 8 sections and includes various functions of meetings.
As noted by Zh.Mirkhalykov, the partners of the university are those who are among the 100 universities in the world.
During 25 years of independence, the President of Kazakhstan has paid special attention to issues of global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
- Askhat daulbaev worked continuously in the general prosecutor's office for the last 15 years.
the volume of gross agricultural output in 2015 grew by 4.4% and amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge. the volume of gross agricultural output increased by 4.4 % in 2015 and amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge .
As a result of disposal products sales in 2015, 322 million tenge was transferred to the national budget.
The amount of the special state allowance under lists No. 1 and No. 2 will be increased due to the increase in the monthly calculation indicator.
And in 24 years we were able to form, and at this time the person himself will not be formed, "said N. Erimbetov.
In 2017, about 10 billion cubic meters of gas will be transported, "V. Shkolnik said.
According to the Governor, the reporting meeting of akims on socio-economic development was held in the 1st quarter of 2015.
Over the course of 6 years, within the framework of the industrialization map, a 898 of projects were launched that presented 85 thousand permanent jobs. 898 projects, which created 85 thousand permanent jobs, have been commissioned within the industrialization map for 6 years.
Currently, work has been completed on the construction of external roads, 2 substations of 35 kW each, gas pipelines, etc.
This suggests that in April 2015, the number of people in the presidential election exceeded 27 thousand people.
borrowers will be offered 37 transport models of brands such as "kia," "toyota," "chevrolet," "skoda," "hyundai," etc., which will be equipped at the white enterprises "Saryarkaavtroprom" and "Asia auto."
At the end of 2015, 130 schools were commissioned, of which 62 schools were built at the expense of the republican budget.
In the message of 2015, the government and citizens of Kazakhstan set the main tasks and tasks.
In 2017, before preparing for EXPO-2017, negotiations are underway to open a flight to Tokyo.
For almost 25 years of sovereignty of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's own experience of the constitutional system has been developed. over 25 years of independence , kazakhstan has gained own experience of constitutional development .
As the Mayor noted, a total of 46 projects were selected for implementation.
2 . this decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
- In your opinion, what is the significance of the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate?
The nation's plan of 100 concrete steps "second reform -" justice "takes a very important position.
It is worth noting that the production, the official opening of which is scheduled for 2016, was launched ahead of schedule.
As of March 4, more than 14 thousand citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan were registered for consular registration in various foreign countries.
thus, 817 observers of international organizations and foreign states are accredited, as well as 140 representatives of foreign gardens of 29 states.
all of them will be taken into account in the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2025, developed by the government of the country taking into account new barriers.
In total, 1279 proposals from candidates were received in the region, including 11 nationalities and 93 women.
Earlier, on March 25, 2016, an agreement was signed on the ratification of the agreement with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
fast-acting refrigeration units take up to 50 tons of fish per day.
14 . Northern Terminal Whitewash International Commercial Port Expansion Project
In 2012, the treatment effectiveness of registered persons with HIV was 75.1%.
It is planned that the program of the Army International Games-2016 will include 23 competitions in field, air and sea skills.
The regional final stage was attended by 16 teams from all districts of the region and Petropavlovsk.
181 regional philharmonic society named after V. Kaldayakova staged a concert and earned 22 million 381 thousand. Tenge.
the remaining 10 memoranda are aimed at ensuring local and Kazakh content in the production process.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the French Republic Nurlan Zhumagaliula Danenov - extended until December 31, 2018 inclusive.
Today, 30% of gross products are sold to countries such as Russia, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia, Belarus.
Sarsenov noted that in 10 years Kazakhstan has created a regulatory framework, architecture and infrastructure of e-government.
only three initiatives saved more than 300 billion tenge over the past period.
51% of the total investment in the main fund (3.3 billion tenge) was transferred to the transport and warehousing industry.
production capacity of the workshop is 5-7 tons per day or 100 tons of finished products per month.
For the further development of PPPs, the implementation of at least 5 projects per year is provided. for further development of the ppp in the framework of the anti-crisis plan of the government and the program of regions ' development an indicator for realization of at least 5 ppp projects per year has been introduced .
Thus, in the near future, citizens will be able to receive 583 services through the front offices of the Government for Citizens state corporation.
Funds were allocated for the payment of subsidies to farmers who bought 17 units of agricultural machinery.	funds were allocated for the farmers who purchased 17 units of agricultural machinery .	2,84
A study conducted by lobator rats showed that bone oxidation is 30% faster.	our researches on laboratory rats have shown that it allows to increase the speed of healing of bone changes by 30 % .	2,84
rental housing is provided without down payment for 20 years with the right to buy back.	rental housing is provided with no down payment with a buy out option to 20 years .	2,84
It should be noted that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev signed the law "On agricultural cooperatives" on November 2, 2015.
Since 2012, the funding of the oncological service in the region has increased 2.5 times and this year will amount to 2.3 billion tenge.
another new amendment is the abolition of the 10 percent fee received during legalization at the expense of the bank. one of the new amendments - no 10 % fee for early withdrawal .
The strategic document of the head of state says that from 2017 a new project "Free vocational education for all" will be implemented.
Since independence, the work of the head of state has been published in 41 foreign languages ​ ​ in 59 countries.
Of these, 2 thousand tons will be produced by Kazneftegas LLP, 11 thousand tons of gas will be processed by ags, "said B. Zhubanov.
The forum also hosts an exhibition of Kazakh producers, in which more than 200 representatives took part.
the average age of candidates is 59 years.
At the end of 2015, trade between our countries amounted to 1.5 billion euros.
The composition of the regional constituency No. 28 for elections works with the same composition in the third elections to the regional maslikhat. the district polling station no . 28 is almost ready .
According to the president, over the years of independence, 28 new sectors have appeared in the manufacturing industry, 900 industrial programs have been implemented.
the goal of our country is to become an eternal country, to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
The mandatory requirement of a business project in addition to a grant, the consumer must independently carry out 10% of the financing.
According to the Prime Minister, in 2014 the President of Kazakhstan presented the economic project "Nұrly zhol" - "Way to the Future."
the last sketch has not yet been adopted, this decision will be made on January 20, 2016, "he said.
As previously reported, Kazakhstan will abandon the heptyl "proton" in 9 years, that is, in 2025.
our cooperation lasts more than 20 years, we highly appreciate such interaction.
Thus, the academy specialists will conduct 3 intensive trainings, 2 seminars on distance learning.
In 2015, the industrialization map implemented 11 projects worth kzt 28.9 billion in 2015, the industrialization map implemented 11 projects worth 28.9 billion in atyrau oblast and created 791 jobs.
We plan to increase the share of Kazakh titanium in the world market from 11% to 14%, "said B. Sagintayev.
The territorial election commission, together with the authorized state body, checked 568 candidates for deputies of the maslikhat, he said.
In his message, the president designated first of all entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
According to the regional department of internal policy, a total of 322 different towns will be built in the region.
The German Embassy in the capital will wish all Kazakhstanis success and good in the new year 2016!, the congratulation says.
additional dump trucks will increase snow export by 44 thousand cubic meters. m and garbage collection by 58 thousand cubic meters. l.
Thus, according to the results of 11 months of 2015, this indicator grew by 16% (186 billion tenge, in 2014 - 160.2 billion tenge).
During the years of independence of Kazakhstan, the World Bank invested 45 projects worth $7.9 billion.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has allocated funds to support enterprises run by women, which amounts to $41 million. european bank for reconstruction and development allocated credit lines totaling $ 41 million to support women businesses .
the loan is granted with a maturity of 20 years, including a grace period of 2.5 years.
In 1995, Kazakhstan ranked third in the world in the per capita index of prison citizens. in 1995 , the index of the prison population in kazakhstan ranked third in the world .
in the bill, legal acts are divided into 2 groups - normative and non-normative.
In general, this project will expand the volume of exports and imports by 32%.
the short-term economic indicator in January-March 2016 amounted to 99.4% by January-March 2015.
Afghanistan is of great economic interest, there is no large market with 30 million people in the near future. afghanistan is of great economic interest , as the population is about 30 million people .
Since the beginning of the year, the employment authorities have held 10 job fairs, as a result of which 550 people have been employed.
On December 10, 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted a universal declaration on human rights. the significance of the universal declaration of human rights , adopted by the un general assembly on 10 december 1948 , cannot be overestimated .
The capacity of the enterprise will be 180 thousand units per year and will cover a third of the needs of the city of Almaty.
According to the akim of Karatau district of Ismailov, last year the commission on legalization of property received 514 applications worth more than 5 billion 600 million tenge, of which 391 (4 billion 107 million tenge) it was decided to legalize the property.
during these works, about 2 thousand jobs will be created, "said the head of the regional department of passenger transport and roads.
As part of the vote of members of the kha council, 9 candidates from kha were nominated for deputies of the majilis of the parliament:
In the first quarter of 2016, Kazakh processing plants processed 7.4 million tons of ore.
In March of this year, approval of the transaction on the purchase of a 100 percent share of Kaztransgaz-Tbilisi is expected.
In addition, to measure the achievement of the goals of the Agribusiness 2020 program, 7 indicators are provided, of which 4 indicators have been achieved.
If you do not forget, on March 15 last year, at the congress of the Nұr Otan party, I voiced this initiative.
Recall, the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev on November 30 published an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan.
Member of the Presidium of the Constituent Council of the Eurasian Creative Guild, publisher of a collection of 100 eminent persons of Eurasia.
Currently, 11 mini-centers and 21 kindergartens operate in the Suzak district.
Since March 28, 2016, a call center has been operating, which will take questions for a press conference.
The volume of consolidation of pilot projects will be carried out through internal loans and grants, from 2012 to 2019 will amount to 100 million consolidated volume of pilot projects, implemented from 2012 to 2019 year will amount to $100 million.
In total, 18 Kazakhstani servicemen take part in the training, that is, 12 officers and 6 military personnel under the contract.
the men's ice hockey team held its first training session on January 29, "he said.
Since September 1, 2014, the Governor's Office of the capital received more than 15 thousand appeals in the districts, "- said R. Dosayev.
To date, the CT has approved 7 export contracts with Russian, Tajik and Uzbek enterprises.
It is also planned to fill 375 rinks and install 329 Christmas trees in settlements.
Reference offices at 16 stations are equipped with the necessary information system for people with ears.
today the share of women in business is 50%, and 42% manage small and medium-sized businesses.
According to him, 54 states are registered for the winter universiade competitions held in Almaty.
At the same time, the expected volume of exports to Russia in 2016 is planned at the level of 1.8 billion kvtsag.
In 2016, the salaries of state employees of Corps B will be increased by 30%.
366 objects were legalized in the region, including 34 residential and 332 non-residential objects.
B. Omarov intends to increase the volume of production to 600 kg per day.
judges whose judicial experience ranges from 5 to 20 years participated in such an assessment.
vaccination is carried out from 2 months to 60 years according to the national schedule of vaccinations of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this will allow the sale of 2 thousand cars from the zhaysan checkpoint located on this road.
To date, 6 joint ventures and 19 enterprises with Saudi Arab capital have been registered in the city.
the number of voters is 1 million 308 thousand people, and this figure is still changing.
According to HKU, one in seven people in the world are refugees, including 214 million international and 740 million internal refugees.
elections will be held in Astana at the Palace of Peace and Harmony on March 21, "he said.
At the same time, 70% of products will be delivered to the domestic market, 30% - for export.
The mining industry produced products worth 115.5 billion tenge, in 2014 - 112.3%.
According to him, today 65% of kindergarten teachers do not have pedagogical knowledge.
The meeting also considered the results of the implementation of the concept of military cooperation of the CIS until 2015.
In December 2015, a memorandum was concluded on the supply of products worth 200 million tenge to Kazenergokabel JSC with Basis LLP and bigroup corporation LLP.
Since 2017, digital work will break the interaction of investors and government agencies, he said.
they are tested for knowledge of the 2017 legislation and assessment of personal qualities.
According to him, the volume of investments in the main capital of the region in 2015 increased by 3.1 billion tenge.
Funds in the amount of 103 million tenge will be allocated for the reconstruction of the 81-kilometer section of the scarlet-turning highway. $ 103 million will be spent on the reconstruction of a section of ' kurta - burlybaytal ' highway ( 81 km ) .
If we ratify the convention, we can establish cooperation with 32 countries and the Eurasian Union on the issue of payment of alimony.
As a result, 327 new jobs will be created, "said the First Deputy Chairman of Baikonur JSC.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, 197 public councils have been created in the country under local executive bodies.
Following the meeting, 17 people were awarded for their contribution to the development of the region.
In accordance with the strategic plan, the country's energy development provides for an increase to 50% by 2020.
In 2016, 37.3 billion tenge was allocated in the national budget for the payment of childcare benefits up to one year.
In total, 100 children took part in the traditional New Year's tree of the head of the region in the Zhambyl region.
The event was attended by representatives of more than 50 companies operating in priority sectors of the state economy.
the short-term economic indicator in January-April 2016 amounted to 99.1% by January-April 2015.
Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Karpovich Bozhko - until December 31, 2016 inclusive;
This is detailed in my message to the people of Kazakhstan dated November 30, 2015.
the share of gin by sectors of the economy: agriculture - 31%, industry - 26%, services and trade - 43%.
The amount of violations per object of control amounted to 4.3 billion tenge, which, respectively, is 3 times more.
thus, taking into account the previously created reductions, the volume of optimization of expenses will amount to 131 billion tenge in total.
In addition, from January 1, 2017, price regulation will be replaced by an antitrust regulatory tool.
in addition, the military orchestra of each country offers a defile that lasts from 8 to 10 minutes.
Thus, in 2015, as part of the regional development program, the use of real estate amounted to 151.4 thousand square meters, "he said.
In 2014, 672 apartments were allocated in the capital in the direction of housing for young families.
23 grants worth 35 million tenge were issued, the missing infrastructure was built for 9 projects worth 1.4 billion tenge.
he represents 14 State institutions, including Parliament, the police, the National Bank, including the President.
mainly in mining - by 58%, in crude oil production - by 62% and trade - by 47%.
In 2016, due to investments in the region, a milk reception workshop with a capacity of 8 tons per day will be opened. in 2016 , due to the investments the district will open a shop for milk reception with a capacity of up to 8 tons per day .
71 projects worth 95.1 billion tenge are being implemented here, 39 of them were implemented.
about 3 million transactions worth more than 18 billion tenge were made through the electronic government payment gateway, of which payments worth 10 billion tenge were made in 2015, "he said.
As the chairman of the committee noted, the final stage of work will be carried out in the first half of 2016.
Recently, 25 projects have been implemented, the rest will be launched in subsequent years.
In the future, in particular, by 2020 the company plans to bring this figure to 50%.
the number of three-shift and emergency schools decreased by 2 times from 2011 to 2015.
On November 16, 2015, the Law on Access to Information was adopted, prepared by the legislative framework for the creation of an "open government."
In general, the list increases by 5%, after a good program, the number of queues increases.
330 people were employed for social jobs, 344 graduates were sent to undergo youth practice.
According to him, by the end of 2016, commercial oil production is expected to intensify.
The anthem of Kazakhstan is known as "my Kazakhstan," which was approved by parliament on January 6, 2006 at the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
100 literary and art workers received scholarships for their outstanding contribution to the development of domestic culture.
The mining and metallurgical industry has been operating since 2005.
At the same time, the Ministry's task is to increase agricultural productivity by 2020.
From 1995 to the present, Kazakhstan has created conditions for 8,830 international observers and foreign gardens.
Currently, 81 countries and 14 international organizations have officially announced their participation in the exhibition in Astana.
In general, this year the fund supported 1,177 projects worth 207 billion tenge, "said B. Sagintayev.
last year, the number of accidents decreased by 7%, accidents by 5% and injured by 7%.
of which - 1 object - construction of dormitories, 11 objects - construction of infrastructure.
It is planned that 196 workers will work in full in 2017.
5 . in this regard, we categorically condemn the nuclear tests carried out by North Korea in violation of international obligations in 2006, 2009, 2013 and 2016 and call on North Korea to abandon new nuclear tests.
in other words, it relies on the success of all 100 steps of the nation's plan.
Since 2013, Kaztransoil has been implementing a project to build unattended communication networks.
Also, more than 1 billion tenge of investment funds are provided to support small and medium-sized businesses.
According to him, when commissioning, it is planned to create 800 permanent jobs.
This year, it is planned to implement 9 new projects worth 1 billion tenge in the field of health care within the PPP, "he said.
On the instructions of the Head of State in 2015, the reform of local government continued in the Republic of Kazakhstan. as it 's known , in order to implement president 's instructions in 2015 kazakhstan continued reforms in the field of local self-government .
In addition, during the "Care" campaign, low-income families received assistance in the amount of 413 million tenge.
Thus, 43 projects worth 100.5 billion tenge were included in the plan of the industrialization map for 2015-2019 of the second five-year plan.
It is planned to create 8621 new workplaces, today 5 projects have been launched, 571 people have been employed.
The programs of the Head of State "Kazakhstan 2050," "100 concrete steps" clearly state that we are working on this direction, "said Sultanov.
The Foundation, founded in 1910, is one of the largest expert and analytical centers in the field of international policy.
Currently, 78 specialists trained under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" are employed at the plant.
We expect that more than 55 thousand athletes from 2 countries will take part in the winter universiade in Almaty.
Yesterday, elections were held for 98 deputies of the Majilis of Parliament, who were elected by citizens of the country on party lists. yesterday , 98 mazhilis deputies were elected by citizens on party lists .
In 2015, trade between Kazakhstan and Japan amounted to $1.4 billion (export - $858.6 million, import - $584.7 million).
The exercises of steppe nut - 2016 are not held on the border of the republic for the first time.
There are 24 joint ventures in the city and 25 enterprises with Danish capital are operating.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan on the basis of the eidu implements 5 Istitutsioan reforms among the newly independent states.
Today, 54 preschool mini-centers and 45 kindergartens operate in Turkestan.
According to akim, in 2016 the volume of attracted investments in the March district may increase.
Currently, 29 companies are engaged in the exploration and production of hydrocarbon raw materials in Aktobe region.
as progress here, I will note the openness held in the election companies of 6 parties.
it depends on our strategic goals and Strategy-2050, the state program "Nұrly zhol" and the plan of the nation, "the head of state said.
in addition, 112 foreign representatives from 26 States were accredited by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Over the past 10 years, Japanese investment in our economy has exceeded $4.5 billion.
8 billion tenge for the construction of a railway route on the section of the second diamond-noise; 4 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of a ferry crossing. 8 billion tenge - for construction of the second railways in the area of almaty - shu ; 4 billion tenge - for the construction of the ferry at the port of kuryk .
In 2014, the law "On Permits and Notifications, which approved a specific list of 481 permits," was adopted.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, 830 employees of these organizations are involved in providing public services to villagers.
Within 93 days, more than 3,000 events will be held at the exhibition, "the statement said.
According to him, the Australian method concluded 10 standard contracts with subsoil users.
Born on June 7, 1974 in the village of Tasbuget, Syrdarya district, Kyzylorda region.
As you know, on April 30, 2015, by a resolution of the head of state, a national commission for modernization was created.
In 2016, Kazakhstan created the Supreme Eurasian Economic Union, the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Council and the Council of Europe.
The design capacity of the new plant in 2015 will be 100 million liters, and in 2020 - 400 million liters.
According to N. Nazarbayev, according to scientists, by 2020 50% of the population will be children.
Thus, within the framework of the program, 491 agreements were concluded with women entrepreneurs on a loan rate guarantee tool.
At the same time, 83% of all money in special accounts is legalized for four months of this year. at the same time 83 % of all the money on special accounts was legalized within four months of the current year .
In the arable field of Abi land, an average variety is grown: Omsk 36 wheat, hybrid rape, flax.
Recall that 48 countries took part in the 2007 Winter Universiade in Italian Turin.
At the initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev, in 2000, the Kazakh branch of Lomonosov Moscow State University was opened on the basis of the university.
According to him, out of 75 thousand grants allocated annually to colleges from the state, a significant part will be aimed at obtaining the first specialty.
Imports from Spain to Kazakhstan amounted to $219 million, exports amounted to $1.2 billion.
40% are women holding managerial positions in all sectors of the region.
Kaziragro is equipped with high-tech equipment of German production for safflower oil production in 2011.
According to the results of the rating (http:// repository.upenn.edu/think _ tanks/10/), the Qi was among the 100 best research centers in the field of security, defense and foreign policy.
Interest in travel conducted in 2015 under the motto of the National Geographical Society of Kazakhstan is gaining a great turn.
in Russia, the white stone factory "ksp" has 85 years of experience in the manufacture of weapons and ammunition.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations is carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016.
178 polling stations in Astana and all polling stations will be provided by observers on election day.
Since 2015, the second five-year plan of industrialization has begun, which is aimed at the accelerated development of industry using the new opportunities of fiasco lessons for 2010-2014.
In this regard, the main goal of the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the program "Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps. "
Yesterday, March 20, elections of deputies of the Majilis and maslikhats of all levels were held in Kazakhstan.
There are several large poultry farms with an area of ​ ​ more than a thousand square meters, "said E. Muratov.
the enterprise has a plant for processing 80 tons of feed and 150 tons of rice per day.
It should be borne in mind that the allocated funds for the construction of social housing are designed for 20 years.
As you know, the agreement on its creation with the usher at the site of the Ulba Metallurgical Plant was signed in the capital on August 27, 2015.
This year it is planned to introduce 115 residential buildings for 1816 apartments in the region, "said B. Atamkulov.
in addition, a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions has been held on our land for 15 years.
On February 25, the head of state is scheduled to meet with the chairman of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Tigran Sargsyan.
Within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum, it is planned to sign 10 commercial documents with foreign companies. as part of the astana economic forum , it is planned to sign 10 commercial documents with foreign companies , in particular , germany , italy , china , poland in the field of energy , agriculture , metallurgy , chemical and food industries , infrastructure .
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations is carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016.
Accreditation of observers of foreign states and international organizations is carried out by the Central Election Commission until March 14, 2016.
"25 years of independence of the Turkic-speaking republics."
Recall that the theme of the 2016 forum is a new economic reality: diversification, innovation and the economics of education. "
According to the national company, in 2015 the fund implemented 14 investment projects with the creation of 6.8 thousand jobs.
In this regard, in 2016, it was instructed to additionally allocate about 100 billion tenge from the special reserve of the government.
Strategy Kazakhstan - 2050 means that we must enter 30 competitive countries.
today Kazakhstan faces new challenges and on their basis we must implement 5 institutional reforms.
According to article 44 of the Constitution of Kazakhstan, the head of state annually publishes a message to the people of Kazakhstan. in accordance with article 44 of the constitution of the republic , the head of state delivers the state of the nation address on the situation within the foreign and domestic policy .
Recall, on November 30, 2015, President Nursultan Nazarbayev published an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan.
According to him, 137 projects worth 184 billion tenge were implemented in the capital for the first five-year plan.
The remaining 186.4 km will be completed in 2016.
One of them is early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and regional deputies, which will be held on March 20.
Since February 26, the observation mission of the CIS countries in Kazakhstan has overseen the preparation of early parliamentary elections.
With the start of the poultry farm, 70 local residents will be employed.
As many stars note, the owner of 2016 loves to travel, beautiful nature and new discoveries.
This figure was 56.4 per cent in 2004, 64.5 per cent in 2007 and 74.5 per cent in 2012.
Payment for undergraduate studies at Nazarbayev University is an average of 4 thousand American dollars for 87 years.
According to him, the plant produces up to 160 thousand tons of low-aluminum ferrotases per year.
As part of the issues of compulsory social health insurance, from January 1, 2017, the introduction of compulsory social insurance is provided. in the framework of the laws regulating the issues of the mandatory social health insurance , the introduction of the mandatory social health insurance is provided from january 1 , 2017 .
an analysis of the application of innovations for 5 months of this year shows the viability of new changes. the analysis of the application of the new laws for 5 months of this year allows to conclude the effective implementation of the fundamental reforms .
It is worth noting that the infrastructure of this industrial zone is being built at the expense of the state and today is 100% complete.
To date, there are more than 110 thousand economic entities in the region, in which 34 thousand people work. in the region , there are more than 34 thousand business entities employing 110 thousand people .
The presidential decree on the creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was signed on March 1, 1995. the presidential decree on the establishment of the assembly of people of kazakhstan was signed on march 1 , 1995 .
The list of approved c5 + 1 draft countries will be considered at the next meeting of the Foreign Ministers.
According to him, the agreement, providing for 21 articles and the following benefits, consists of 3 chapters.
On March 11, 2016, the road show "Tourism Development as Part of Expo 2017" was organized by the German company uk and berlinmesse.
Recall that the action "Gift to the National Museum" started in March 2015.
Currently, the staff number of employees of Eurochem Fertilizer LLP is 138 people.
In 2015, 200 tons of agricultural seeds were introduced into the Kurgan region.	in 2015 , it imported 200 tons of seed crops from kurgan region .	2,94
To date, 10 priority countries have been selected, with 10 special investment advisers.	to date , 10 priority countries have been chosen where 10 special advisers on investment will be sent .	2,94
919 people were involved in public works, 302 people will undergo professional and retraining and increase their qualifications.	919 people were involved in public works , and 302 people were sent to vocational training , retraining .	2,94
It is worth noting that in 2016, the amount allocated by the erga under the memorandum amounted to 1.3 billion tenge.	in 2016 the amount allocated by the erg has grown to 1.3 billion tenge .	2,94
To date, 140 proposals of domestic entrepreneurs have been accepted, including 75 projects worth 532 billion tenge, "the akim said.
political parties were represented by 1942 people (24.6%), public associations - 12 people (0.2%), 5931 people (75.2%).
According to the Governor of the region, 200 billion tenge of foreign investments will be attracted in the next 3 years.
The construction of the center began at the end of 2015, it will be commissioned before the end of 2016.
A memorandum for 600 million tenge was also signed to support small and medium-sized businesses in rural areas.
In addition, in the second half of 2016, it is planned to launch a new heidelberg cement project.
71 investment projects worth 73.7 billion tenge are being implemented in the industrial zone "South" in Shymkent.
According to him, the agreement, providing for 21 articles and the following benefits, consists of 3 chapters.
By 2021, oil and gas production should reach 92 million tons, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In addition, he noted that 131 billion tenge has been optimized for EXPO costs.
183 people were involved in the construction of the plant, including 99 people through the employment center.
In 2015, more than 100 thousand women received about 4 billion tenge for individual pension accounts, "he said.
Despite the difficulties, trade between the two countries exceeds $2 billion.
According to the regional akimat, the cost of this project is 2 billion tenge, it is included in the regional industrialization map.
From March 4, you can visit your polling station and check yourself on the voter lists.
For example, I head a company that for 9 years tried to introduce new technologies into the construction sector of the country.
The project plans to produce 1 million 800 thousand pieces of products per year and create two hundred jobs.
In 2015, 28 new high-tech industries were introduced in the industrial park, 800 jobs were created.
in our parliament, 37% of women, and in Kazakhstan, as far as I know, 50%. german parliament has about 37 % of women , as far as i know , kazakhstan - about 50 % .
A new stage of the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan is currently being implemented, "N. Nazarbayev said.
The meeting summed up the results of socio-economic development for 2015 and identified measures to ensure economic growth.
in Suzak district, the implementation of the Balapan state program amounted to 81.3%, 3026 children are brought up.
The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank forecast high economic growth rates for Kazakhstan for 2016.
In accordance with the agreement signed in Beijing on June 29, 2015, Kazakhstan will become one of the founding states.
For the construction of a plant in the city of Novatas for a long time allocated 4 hectares of land for rent.
13 countries have been freed from highly enriched uranium. "
the youth unemployment rate of 16-28 ¼ of working age was 4.3% (2014 - 4.3%).
Therefore, each store in 22 regions has its own name, "the head of the Narodnaya Marka project, Rimma Tazhibaeva, said at the opening ceremony.
In 2012, the President of the International Association of Sociologists met with the leadership of Michael Burawa Kaa in Almaty and Astana. in 2012 astana and almaty hosted the meeting of the president of the international sociological association ( isa ) michael burawoy with the leadership of ask .
Under the new law adopted on October 31, 2015, the public-private partnership mechanism is used in all areas. under the new law , which was adopted on october 31 , 2015 , the mechanism of the public-private partnership is used in all sectors .
the average flight of one pilot was 52 hours 14 minutes (in 2014 - 48 hours 20 minutes).
the compulsory health insurance fund is created this year, is implemented from January 1 of the next year and contributions are made to the fund.	from 1 january next year , the fund will be receiving contributions .	2,97
vaccination of the population is carried out free of charge in accordance with the national schedule of vaccinations against 21 infectious diseases.	the vaccination of the population is free of charge in accordance with the national vaccination calendar against 21 infectious diseases .	2,97
now domestic products will be delivered in Shaanxi province with a population of 35 million people.	now , the domestic production will be supplied in shaanxi province , the population of which exceeds 35 million people .	2,97
Thus, under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," 23 participants received loans in the amount of 43.3 million tenge.
According to the Governor of the region, 150 people were employed as part of the state program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
To date, $1 million has been spent and 50 new jobs have been created, "the report said.
open-type furnace, burning anodes, has 50 chambers, each of which consists of 7 beetles.
27 million tons of grain were received, which is 3.4 million tons more than in 2014, "said B. Sagintayev.
In 2014, he was appointed director of the administrative department of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
It is important to note that the launch of the facility contributed to the creation of 50 new permanent jobs.
In addition, for 3 months, local executive bodies sent 540 million tenge as material assistance to these citizens. in addition , within 3 months this year the local agencies have directed about 540 million tenge to the financial support of the citizens .
The state program "Business Roadmap 2020" allocated 250 million tenge for the construction of this infrastructure, "the report said.
In just 6 years 900 projects worth 3.8 trillion tenge have been put into operation, he said.
To date, 159 joint ventures and 209 enterprises with capital have been registered in Almaty.
He noted that 3 thousand permanent jobs were created within the framework of the launched production.
The South Circus team, which gave joy to the children, presented the residents of the Alakai-Balakai and Amazing Caravan programs 13 times and attracted funds in the amount of 9 million 615 thousand. Tenge.
Today, the food corporation issued about 3 billion tenge to 500 agricultural producers, he said.
It is worth noting that the Football Federation of Kazakhstan held 4 professional international tournaments in the period from April to September of this year.
I am preparing for this competition with my leader, I hope that in 2016 this will be successful for me. we are now preparing with my head for this competition , in 2016 i will take part in it , i hope that next year will be the best for me .
our strategy "Nұr zhol" and the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
annual investment should be increased by $10 billion, and in general over 10 years - by $100 billion. to increase the annual investment in kazakhstan 's economy by more than 10 billion dollars , and , in general , for 10 years by not less than 100 billion dollars .
The protocol was signed by authorized representatives of Azerbaijan, Iran, Kazakhstan and Russia on August 12, 2011 in the city of Aktau.
This station was renovated in 2000 on the eve of the celebration of the 1500th anniversary of the city.
In 2015, three refinery plants in Kazakhstan increased gold production by 15% compared to 2014. in 2015 , all three refineries of kazakhstan increased their gold production by more than 15 % compared to 2014 .
He recalled that from January 1, 2016, 59 new laws entered into force in the country and the clear implementation of the nation's projects for the implementation of five institutional reforms began.
At the same time, 70% of investments in the manufacturing sector were attracted as part of the project.
By 2020, it is planned to bring the book fund of the national library to 100% in Kazakhstan, he said.
In 2015, large-scale work was carried out to create a legislative basis for a new stage of the country's political, economic and social development.
The first is the execution of the protocol order by the republican commission, which took place on August 7, 2015.
The head of the department noted that the last time wages increased by 30%.
the distance between Kurds and turning points and places is 228 km.
90 athletes from the UK delegation will take part in international competitions in Almaty.
69 per cent of them were men, 31 per cent were women and 66 per cent had higher education.
This was initiated by the head of state within the framework of the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps."
there will be 2 lanes for vehicles and footpaths and a cycle track.
It is worth noting that in the region there are 310 religious organizations and branches.
According to him, as of February 8, 2016, 6 party lists were put forward to the central election commission.
In 2015, more than 30 tons of refined gold were produced, in 2014 - 27 tons, "he said.
The area of ​ ​ the princely pavilion at Expo 2017 will exceed 500 square meters.
67 billion tenge was additionally allocated for the construction of credit housing through the local executive body from the National Fund. in addition , 67 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund for the construction of credit housing through the local executive bodies , " dossayev has said .
an effective parliament is one of the most important factors in Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world. the effective parliament is one of the most important factors of kazakhstan 's joining top 30 developed countries in the world .
Kokshe-Cement LLP with a capacity of 2 million tons of products per year will employ 650 people.
Note that in 2012 and 2014, the Kazakh leader was a laureate of this award.
We have created and operate 10 special economic zones, "- said K. Pockets.
As a result, more than 27 thousand families will solve housing problems, "said R. Sklyar.
The head of state has a strategy for the development of Kazakhstan until 2050 and a development program "Nұrly zhol."
According to the results of 2015, the number of business entities in the region amounted to 184.9 thousand units, the volume of products produced by representatives of small and medium-sized businesses increased by 5.7%, to 563.8 billion tenge. in 2015 , the number of business entities was 184.9 thousand .
Among its goals, Kazakhstan will be among the 30 developed countries of the world until 2050.
According to him, as of December 1 of this year, 485 applications for the legalization of property were received in the Mangistau region.
Since April 28, 2016, the film has been released nationwide and is released in all cinemas in the country.
This year, the program was completed by 8 undergraduates of the academy who studied in the specialties of "public administration" and "international relations."
Since 2018, all students in other classes will switch to a new course of study.
Deputy Minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zauresh Khamitovna Baimoldina - until December 31, 2018 inclusive;
Also, citizens can send messages and photos and videos through the whatsapp messenger to the number + 7 700 800 4441.
For 25 years of independence, oil has realized the most important ambitions in its development. it is oil industry allowed kazakhstan to implement the most significant breakthrough over 25 years of independence .
On the eve of Independence Day, it is planned to put into operation a private kindergarten with 120 seats.
It is worth noting that the foreign side is interested in investments in the amount of 35 billion tenge and plans to provide 50 local residents with permanent jobs.
130 foreign and 180 Iranian companies presented railway transport products.
Metal prices will be reduced by 19.8% compared to 2014.
the wear of the city's thermal system is 65%, operational modernization of the system is necessary.
According to B. Saparbayev, this year within the framework of the industrialization map, work will continue on the commissioning of new facilities totaling 8.1 billion tenge with coverage of 350 jobs.
in addition, the number of participants in the Astana hub increased to 34 countries and 5 international organizations.
This important political event was attended by 817 foreign observers, 147 foreign gardeners.
In 2014, more than 23 thousand couples raised shanyrak.
As a result, Kazakhstan will be among the 30 developed countries of the world.
According to the foundation of the youth center of Kokshetau, children from 14 to 16 years old took part in the tournament.
Thus, funds are allocated to the republican budget - 6,774 million tenge, regional budgets - more than 4,215 million tenge, holdings - 67,262 million tenge, shares - 3,295 million tenge.
At the end of 2015, members of the Navy took part in 14 international events.
With the support of the regions of the country, this year it is planned to hold 800 agricultural fairs in the city.
From 2017, a comprehensive program for the project of free professional education will be introduced.
To date, 730 public services are provided in accordance with the register of public services, 212 of which are provided by public service centers (hereinafter - CES), "said M. Aisina.
If you remember, from 2007 to 2009, wages increased by 25% annually.
59 bills were adopted to adopt the "100 Concrete Steps" National Plan.
The overhaul started in 2015 was carried out twice as much as before.
More than a thousand children with disabilities performed on the big stage of the country.
Recall, on March 20, Kazakhstan held elections of deputies of the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels.
in particular, 11 member States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation were experiencing such difficulties.
1) apply the norms of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of November 2, 2015 "On Amendments and Additions to the Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan";
according to the World Bank, wool growth in 2015 amounted to 1.5%.
Since 2010, they produced products worth 117.6 billion tenge, paid taxes worth 10.5 billion tenge, "the akim said.
we are preparing a project for the construction of a poultry farm with a capacity of 30 thousand tons of meat per year in the Urdzhar region, "said the Akhmetov village.
upon retirement, the judge would receive 65 per cent of the current salary.	a judge at retirement will receive almost 65 % of their current salary .	3,03
An agreement was reached with China on cooperation in the non-oil sector for $23 billion.	an agreement on cooperation in the non-primary sector worth $ 23 billion was reached with china .	3,03
currently there are 91 general education schools in the city, in which 117,097 students study.
this right was granted to the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan on constitutional reform of 2007.
As part of the implementation of the order of the head of state to create a public fund, a meeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan was held on February 19.
I want to draw your attention that this year 5 million cars will run on Kazakhstan roads. i draw your attention that currently 5 million cars wheel on the roads of kazakhstan .
in fact, three mns can provide a domestic market of 100%. in fact , three modernized refineries can provide the domestic market by 100 % .
All half of the 1 million 200 thousand of our fellow countrymen who went to war died for their homeland.
According to the akim, after the completion of construction, 310 people work at the plant.
Gross national income per capita reached $20.876 (in 2014 - $19.441).
This year, 8 facilities were implemented, 4 projects will be launched in 2016, "he said.
after us: zko - 38.8%, Almaty - 34%.
According to the Ministry, as a whole, today the budget has been spent in the amount of more than 7 trillion tenge
the amount of the allowance in turn for children ranged from 11,417 to 17,640 tenge.
Of these, 30 hectares will be planted now, the remaining 70 hectares in the fall.
First Deputy Manager of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ingkarbaev dabyr Kamysbaevich - until December 31, 2016;
The project cost is 150 million euros, the Dutch woman was attracted as the main investor.
K. bozumbayev noted that about 30% of the Caspian basin is located in Russia.
services that have all existing contracts will receive support until 2021.
To date, Kazakhstan has 200 investment projects worth more than $40 billion.
Also, the number 40 is considered sacred in other religions.
Now 300 projects are in operation, given the situation, negotiations are ongoing with most of them.	as the minister explained , 300 projects are presently under consideration now .	3,05
First, I sincerely congratulate you on the 24th anniversary of independence, which will be tomorrow.
Over 5 years, $17.6 billion of foreign direct investment has been attracted to the manufacturing sector.
According to him, 2015 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the development of the district in 1.
According to K. Karmanov, for 4 months of 2016, 400 investors turned to the "one window."
the sites are ready for work, they will work from March 1, "he said.
At the same time, the provision of local fruits to the area is 60%.
the bureau is ready to provide expert support for the implementation of the "100 Steps" National Plan in Kazakhstan.
In order to train qualified specialists in the top 10 colleges, training has been launched for the state program of industrial and innovative development.
labor productivity increased 1.9 times, production capacity decreased by about 10%.
According to him, over the past 10 years, agricultural production has increased by 41%.
2 . provision of preferential conditions for the purchase of leased land.
To date, 7 thousand foreign scientists have been invited to scientific and teaching activities.
In total, 13,399 election commissions were involved in organizing and conducting elections of representatives of gardens. total , there are 13 399 election commissions involved in the organization process .
In 2015, as part of the Sybaga program, 278 mother stock and 30 breeding bulls were acquired.
From 2017 to 2019, all of them will gradually switch to a five-day school week.
10 thousand cube. m of reinforced concrete products and 19.5 thousand cubic meters. cube. m per year Partitions (partitions) and partitions (tiles) are released with the removal of meters into the cap.
Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mahmud Bazarkulovich Kassymbekov - until December 31, 2018 inclusive;
Parliament has passed 80 laws, developed roadmaps for each institutional reform of the president.
the use of aluminum in the country and an increase in the Kazakhstani character in the production of products is 92%.
and in the crop of gardens 65%, fruits 36%, grapes 65% are in our region.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the country has been cooperating with the European Union for 23 years.
According to the chairman of the board, the company is currently conducting exploration of 10 objects.
40 interested companies participate in establishing trade and economic relations with Indian partners.
In 1992, Kazakhstan initiated the convening of a meeting on interaction and confidence-building measures in Asia.
To date, 90 countries and 16 international organizations have officially confirmed their participation in the Astana exhibition.
consists of 12 denominations: Tslama, Orthodoxy, Protestantism, Catholicism, Krishna, Judaism.
In 2017, for the stability of the country, we predict the growth of Kazakhstan and the achievement of the previous level of growth. in 2017 , we expect the growth and the levels required for the stability of the country .
smbgroup family plans to release 12 million pieces of bags and about 600 thousand big runs.
In 2012, Eidu proposed to the Republic of Kazakhstan how to improve the investment climate of Kazakhstan.
Nevertheless, the special sanctity of the head of state in the "100 concrete steps" should be noted.
On February 18 this year, the relevant law on ratification of this contract was adopted.
the total natural growth rate was 15.20 (15.55) people per 1000 people.
creation of a production base with such large warehouses with a total area of ​ ​ 5 hectares. the territory of the company covers about 5 hectares .
Recall that the republican association of mining and metallurgical enterprises was created in 2005.
local maintenance, work and activity of goods for the construction of infrastructure facilities amounted to more than 80%.
Holding early elections on March 20 will save the country 4.8 billion tenge.
The pavilion is attended by more than 100 employees.
winners are selected according to 12 criteria and formulas for each of them are used.	'the selection of the winner is based on 12 criteria .	3,06
In general, the volume of glyphosate herbicide for the year is 4 thousand tons, "said the director.
the work on nominating candidates for deputies of the maslikhat will last until February 19, and registration - until February 23.
to support the projects, we supported 1,140 projects worth 79.9 billion tenge, "he said.
The construction of the facility began in 2013 and was carried out by the Aksha Army Engineering Corps.
I am glad that many European countries will take part in the 2017 Winter Universiade in Alma-Ata. i am very pleased with the fact that many european countries have confirmed their participation in the winter universiade in 2017 in almaty .
In 2015, revenues to the republican budget amounted to 6.2 trillion tenge and increased by 4.4%. in 2015 , revenues in the national budget exceeded 6.2 trillion tenge or + 4.4 % .
In fact, as of March 25, 166 objects were released, including 120 objects sold.
The area of ​ ​ the sown area of ​ ​ Abi Zher LLP in the Kyzylzhar district is 14 thousand hectares.
As a result of state support, the factory management plans to release another 28 products this year.
for example, 10 thousand explanatory sheets on registration as an individual entrepreneur were distributed to trading houses and markets alone.
Compared to the 2015 presidential election, this year the number of voters increased by 11 thousand people.
According to him, in 2015, 15.4 thousand square meters or 292 apartments were sold.
During the implementation of 60 steps of the National Plan, the stf is being built, "he said.
From January 1 to February 20, the application was downloaded by 95.5 thousand users on their mobile phones.
In 2015, the number of vacationers on the coast of the alacol and balkhash increased to 138 thousand people.
including on the basis of a state educational order - more than 3 thousand students.
akim of Aktobe region baktykozha salakhatdinovich izmukhambetov - until September 1, 2016;
Kazakhstanis, about 80%, cast their votes to this party.
In 2015, the total trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Australia amounted to 74.2 million dollars.
In the future, it is planned to increase annual sales to 200 thousand tons. "
In fact, as of April 25, 207 objects were released, including 123 objects.
The number of scientists aged 35 years in 2011 amounted to 6 thousand 487, in 2014 - 9 thousand 447.
happy garden is located in a two-story house with a total area of ​ ​ 600 square meters.
25 thousand of them do not enter the university or college.
During the meeting, the preliminary results of the socio-economic development of the region for the first half of 2016 were discussed.
On January 21, a press conference was held with the participation of representatives of the central election commission.
By the end of the year, we will reach $1 billion in investments, "he said.
Last year, 81 persons were involved in the provision of special social services in the non-governmental organization sector.
It is worth noting that in 2015 the trade turnover between the countries amounted to 321.7 million tenge.
This year, the metallurgical industry increased immediately by 15%, the chemical industry - by 3.2%.
Since the beginning of the implementation of the projects, agreements have been concluded on 13 facilities with 10 regions of the republic. since the start of realization of the projects we have concluded the deals on 13 facilities in 10 regions of the country .
Recall that in Kazakhstan the project "commercialization of technologies" has been implemented since 2008.
Since the beginning of the year, 13 job fairs have been held in the capital, "the report said.
Also, from July 10 to August 10, a promotional stage for tour operators and resellers will be held.
design and estimate documentation for the construction of the intermediate station Kokozek with a capacity of 110/10 kV of the electric network is being developed.
opening of these plants will allow creating 93 additional jobs, "said E. Bekshenov.
According to the press service of the branch, 26 agreements worth 371 million tenge were approved.
It is worth noting that more than 40 countries took part in the junior championship tournament.
It is planned to attract a preferential loan from the World Bank for a period of 35 years for a total amount of 650 billion tenge.
According to him, currently the regional hub includes 32 participating countries.
Thus, in 2015 the volume of investments in the agricultural sector amounted to 167 billion tenge.
In 2015, cases submitted to the court were considered 10.4% higher than in 2014. in 2015 in comparison with 2014 the reception and considered cases by courts were by 10.4 % more .
in addition, from next year, student scholarships will increase by 25%.
At the expense of the republican budget, 13 airports of Kazakhstan were reconstructed for a total of 97 billion tenge.
At the end of 2015, 1.6 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the fixed capital of the March region.
The event will be held in the capital on May 2016, 31 on the eve of the XV meeting of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions.
I, as chairman of a public organization, closely monitor preparations for the March 20 elections. being a representative of the ngo , i always follow the progress of the preparation for the elections scheduled for march 20 .
600 new jobs will be created during the commissioning of the plant, "said NC Toxeites.
today there are 188 preschool institutions in the capital, which are attended by more than 34 thousand children.
We were awarded the 2015 State Prize in the field of science and technology named after al-Farabi. we have been awarded the al-farabi state prize in the field of science and technology in 2015 .
rental and acquisition of 142.5 thousand square meters or 2728 apartments.
From the new year 2016, new laws adopted as part of the National Plan will begin to operate.
As for the fact that this law gives agricultural producers, before that the issue of cooperation was too regulated, that is, the issues of cooperation were regulated by 5 laws.
currently, the share of SMEs occupies 61% of the gross regional product of the capital. nowadays sme 's share in the gross regional product of astana has reached 61 % .
the capacity of a one-time load of agricultural products of the transport and logistics center is about 400 thousand tons.
The event was attended by 200 Kazakhstanis and 700 Iranian companies.
According to forecasts, 60% of parliament and local maslikhats will be updated.	there is a preliminary forecast that 60 % will change the composition of the majilis of the parliament of the country and local maslikhats .	3,08
Since January 1, 2016, all courtrooms of the capital are covered by audio/video installations.
preliminary ticket price of 200 tenge per person in one direction. advance ticket price is set by service provider , is 200 tenge per passenger .
out of 55 thousand sown areas belonging to the subjects of the agro-industrial complex, 13.7 million hectares were re-sown.
According to Opec's plan, by 2040, the demand for petrochemicals in daily equivalent will grow by 3-4 million barrels.
now eltrans antifreezes will be delivered in 17 cities of Kazakhstan and nearby regions of Russia.
9 . Automated trade and production complex "kaztexpo" LLP "Innovation production company" astana yutaria ltd "
The implementation of projects within the framework of the new road will create 400 thousand new jobs, "the head of state said.
For more than 10 years he held leading positions in international (bracewell & giuliani) and Kazakhstani legal companies.
The event was organized by the civil initiative group "Great Steppe" with the support of the national movement "Kazakhstan 2050."
817 foreign observers and international organizations are monitoring the upcoming elections. 817 observers from foreign states and international organizations will monitor the upcoming elections .
In general, 2015 was a spectacular and spectacular year for the whole people.
One of the 100 steps in the strategic modernization of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the modernization of educational institutions in the country. one of 100 steps of the national plan modernizing kazakhstan 's economy is the step modernizing the country 's education system .
The capital - the new city will operate from January 1, 2002 and will last until 2027.
He said that from June 3 to 5 in the capital there will be a festival of Easter song, in which 350 people from all over the country will take part.
According to him, in 2015 more than 39 thousand units of various facilities were commissioned.
As part of the development of education infrastructure by local executive bodies, 13.1 billion tenge worth 14 billion tenge was spent. as part of the development of the infrastructure of education , the local executive bodies disbursed 13.1 billion tenge with the plan of financing of 14 billion tenge .
In 2014, the hub was awarded a special UN prize for its contribution to the development of south-south cooperation.
The grand opening of the decade will take place in all educational organizations of the republic on February 2, 2016.
in the city of Rudny, 16 candidates were nominated for deputies of the city maslikhat and 5 applicants for the regional maslikhat. in rudny 16 candidates nominated for the deputies of the city maslikhat and 5 candidates for the regional maslikhat .
In January-December 2015, trade turnover of Zhambyl region with Poland amounted to $2.0 million.
we discussed how preparations for the elections are going, on October 9 parliamentary elections will be held in Lithuania. we have discussed the preparations for the elections , on october 9 parliamentary elections will be held in lithuania .
The total project will be $5 million.
about 30% of transformer equipment of factory production is exported to the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Decisions and orders were adopted at a meeting of the Union of Commissions on March 17, 2016.
the cost of paper packaging materials for equalicate pulp is about 26%. the share of the pulp made of eucalyptus in the cost of base paper of coating materials is about 26 % .
At the end of 2015, 187 people received financial assistance in the amount of 3.8 million tenge, "the Governor of the region said.
today in the private sector, only 9% of medical workers leave the state. today , about 9 % of the state funds are directed to cover medical services in the private sector .
for example, the Ministry of Energy of Aktobe region will present 12 innovative projects for placement in the national pavilion.
To cover cargo in 2015, the country's power plant produced 90.8 billion kWh. in 2015 , in order to meet the power load of the country 90.8 billion kw / h were produced .
they are headed by 13 women's and gender non-governmental organizations, 39 ethnocultural associations.
66% of objects (or 3825 objects) were legalized for a total amount of 8.6 billion tenge.
in general, the recruitment plan in the armed forces of Kazakhstan this year has been 100% completed.
100 million square meters of housing were commissioned, housing provision increased 1.5 times. more than 100 million square meters of housing construction permissions were issued .
According to the results of 2015, the holding's share in the bank's loan portfolio amounted to 43%. the share of the holding in the credit portfolio of the agro-industrial complex made 43 % in 2015 .
The volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 2 billion tenge, an increase of 2.9% compared to the same period last year.
The launch of the hypermarket will give 350 permanent jobs, "the report said.
This year in Almaty region under the program 16 houses are planned to be repaired.
out of 220 billion tenge allocated for agriculture, 49 billion tenge was spent. out of 220 billion tenge allocated for the agricultural sector , 49 billion tenge was used to support agricultural producers .
in addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 117 representatives of foreign gardens from 28 states.
Of the 49 objects, the initial cost of which amounted to 190 million tenge, bidding took place in 38 fields.
14.6 billion tenge of private foreign investment was invested in the project, 90 jobs will be created.
Today, up to 45 thousand participants will perform in 15 regions of Kazakhstan on the march of the Immortal Regiment.
According to the results of the measures taken in 2015, the economic added value of kazatomprom (eva) increased by 15.4 billion tenge.
the entrepreneur brought 376 heads of tribal camels "dromoder" from the Turkmen country, adapted to the pastures of the village of Mayakum.
In 2014, a new strategy for our cooperation was adopted, which includes a very large-scale work, "the head of state said.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, 2015 renewable energy projects with a capacity of about 14 MW were introduced in 120.
According to him, in 2015 the total amount of science financing from the state budget amounted to 43.6 billion tenge.
A festive event will be held at 14 venues in the city.
As of February 16, seminars will be held with representatives of political parties and regional gardens. a seminar-meeting with the political parties and regional media is planned to be held on february 16 .
The legal situation when the head of state approved the holding of early elections in the Majilis on March 20. decree of the president sets march 20 the day of elections .
In 2015, Kazakhstan provided assistance to the Government of Tajikistan in the amount of $4.7 million.
5 institutional reforms cover a wide range of areas and are not limited only to changes in the economic sphere.
In addition, it is planned to develop 91 billion kWh in 2016, "said K. bozumbayev.
Born August 17, 1963 in Kyzylorda.
the transition of the plant to the industrial zone will be carried out in accordance with the priority of the development program "Almaty - 2020" "central city."
During the project, 171 civil servants visited 25 EU countries. the project office implemented 25 study visits to the european union for 171 participants .
of which 2 trillion tenge was allocated from state funds, however, 4 trillion tenge of taxes were transferred to the treasury.
half of the income was taxes, 43% are included in the transfer and 3% are non-tax and others, "the minister said.
They will represent 19 countries: Austria, Germany, Georgia, Denmark, Ireland, Moldova, the Netherlands. they represent 19 countries : austria , georgia , germany , denmark , ireland , moldova , the netherlands , etc .
According to him, the initial volume of the fund is about 13 billion tenge and can be increased to 32 billion tenge.
in addition, in the preparatory period, 20 people refused to participate in the crime, they were identified and interrogated.
Today, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Kazakhstan's base of agreements includes 3683 international agreements. today , according to the ministry of foreign affairs , kazakhstan contract base includes 3683 international treaties .
Today, relevant documents are being prepared to include the project in the program of industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019.
To this end, in 2016, five institutional reforms were quickly implemented.
As part of the state program of industrial and innovative development in 2015, 4 projects worth 7.1 billion tenge were implemented, 409 jobs were created.
This year Kazakhstan was one of the 50 best exporters and took 43rd place, "N. Nazarbayev said.
On December 16, 1986, in Alma-Ata, young people who entered the field resisted the Soviet council.
We will carefully prepare for the summit in June 2017 and strengthen preparations for EXPO-2017, "the minister said.
It should be noted that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev signed the law "On compulsory health insurance" on November 18, 2015.
and the Minister for Foreign Affairs extended invitations to 18 international organizations and 112 States within international organizations.
the first is the one-belt-one-way program, voiced by Chinese President Xi Jinping during a visit to Kazakhstan in 2013.
We adopted the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy and the corresponding action plan until 2020.
in addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan has currently accredited 147 representatives of foreign gardens.
Today, Kazakhstan has become one of the third world countries, where per capita income is 13 thousand dollars. nowadays from the third world countries kazakhstan is among the well-off countries with per capita of the gdp 13 thousand dollars .
We supported 550 projects, and last year 425 projects were supported. we have supported 550 projects , whereas last year over the same period we supported 425 projects .
In December 2015, two agreements were signed on the engineering infrastructure of Semey city in the amount of 11 billion tenge.
The Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs allocated 300 million tenge through the Almeh investment fund for the implementation of the affordable microcredit project.
for example, in 2014, the price of technical silicon in the world market amounted to 3 thousand dollars per ton.
of these, 3271 materials in republican and 1069 in regional gardens, "he said.
the winner of the tender, the subcontractor is determined, this year we will complete 50-60% of 80 km of roads.
For the first time in the history of Kazakhstan, the prison contingent decreased by 40 thousand people, "said the prosecutor general.
In 2015, as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development, 7 projects worth 5.5 billion tenge were implemented, 562 jobs were created.
олар : general electric , toyota motor , chevron , total , airbus group , basf , hyundai motor , sanofi , rio tinto , posco , danone , kia motors , linde , heidelbergcement , alstom , thales , keppel corp , thyssenkrupp group , metro group , solvay , lg electronics , peugeot , aes , areva , sumitomo metal mining , anadolu efes , flowserve , ls corp , cameco ) .
If there are 1,074 polling stations in the region, at all of which observers are appointed, all of them will undergo training and practical training. each of 1074 polling stations will have an observer .
The contribution of this financial institution to the development of the economy of our country exceeds 1 trillion. 5 billion tenge.
implementation of a new investment project will allow the company to produce up to 100 thousand tons of products per year.
The list of investment projects in Zhambyl region included in the industrialization map of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014 and 2015-2019 includes 46 projects.
The application takes into account the entrance as a guest, through which you can access 10 services.
On March 21, they will elect a representative of the assembly to the Majilis of the parliament, "he said.
As part of the "Business Roadmap" program, an engineering and communication network worth 120 million tenge was carried out to implement the project.
These new goals, their achievements are determined until 2020. " sultanoglu.
the first meeting of the head of state was opened on January 30, 1996, 20 years ago.
The total area of ​ ​ the two-story kindergarten building is 600 square meters.
In 2015, as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development, 7 projects worth 5.5 billion tenge were implemented, 562 jobs were created.
the plan of the nation - 100 concrete steps. "
In 1999, the average amount of solidarity pension amounted to 4 thousand 179 tenge, in 2015 this indicator amounted to 39 thousand 379 tenge.
the use of the second stage is scheduled for June 2019 (60 thousand tons of live weight meat per year).
If you look at the world map 10, 20, 50 years ago, then there are no some states - this is history.
According to Topabek Ablaev, 2827 specialists who entered the new structure underwent reformatting.
In this regard, there were many people, specialists served 620 residents.
The head of state noted that 61 billion tenge will be allocated through akimats to attract infrastructure to new areas of mass housing construction.
In 2016 Kazakhstan implemented 5 new investment projects with the participation of transnational companies.
this year, on my instructions, significant funds were allocated for the implementation of the "Employment Roadmap," which will provide work for about 60 thousand people.
In addition, the project provides for the creation of 150 jobs, training of more than 50 engineers and technical specialists in the field of technology in Kazakhstan and abroad.
90% of the raw materials required for the plant are produced in the region, "the akim said.
both children aged 3 to 15 years and adults can be sick.
if 130 tons of gold from Kazakhstan at once, we are ready to clear it. if kazakhstan produces 130 tons of gold , we are ready to work .
The forum will be attended by 80 speakers from central Asia: Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, as well as Mongolia, Russia and foreign countries.
Currently, the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan study the state language of about 15 and a half thousand military personnel. about 15 thousand soldiers learn the state language in the armed forces .
Harvests of spike crops for 241.6 thousand hectares, 16 centners were obtained.
During the meeting, issues were discussed at the Security Council session in September and December 2015.
7.1 billion tenge was allocated for meat poultry farming in 2014, 8.4 billion tenge in 2015.
During the meeting, an agreement was reached on providing the Iranian company with 10 thousand hectares of land.
285 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the purchase of a new car.	in order to ensure immediate and timely response to the wrongdoings and their prevention , the region allocates 285 mln tenge for purchase of cars for them ,  akhmetov added .
coverage of children in preschool education in the area reached 90%.
He noted that they would be available in 56 Eku languages.
For 2 years, 41% of the waiting lists will be provided with housing.
According to the results of 2015, trade turnover between Aktobe region and Germany amounted to 178 million dollars.
According to the concept, the national pavilion will be located on the basis of the ball object, today 60% of construction work has been completed on the main frame of the building.
our bilateral relations, of course, are reflected in the strategic treaty signed in 2009.
the production of copper concentrate from sulfide ore will begin in 2017 according to the schedule.
In 2015, a record housing commissioning rate was set. in 2015 we had a record volume of commissioned housing .
It should be noted that more than 2 thousand people are expected to participate in the congress.
The volume of 2015 is 8.9 trillion tenge, an increase of 2.5%.
Pre-sale of tickets is carried out during 2016 and until June 9, 2017.	ticket sales will take place during 2016 and up to june 9 , 2017 .	3,17
In 1998, the country had signed a convention to eliminate all inequalities against women.	in 1998 , the country has signed and ratified the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women .	3,17
In general, since the beginning of the implementation of the program, a 506 of projects worth 88,107,9 million tenge has been approved. since the beginning of program implementation 506 projects for a total amount of kzt 88 107.9 million were approved , " - the statement reads .
This allowed to create more than 193 thousand new jobs, "the department said.
Despite the difficulties, over the past 25 years he has embarked on new initiatives.
Minister of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Sergeyevich schoolboy - until December 31, 2016 inclusive;
the new structure combines 530 public services provided to the population on the principle of "one window."
agricultural land of the village of Malay is 15 thousand hectares, where grain and oilseeds will be planted.
the total number of borrowers exceeds 47 thousand agricultural producers, "said Malelov.
of which 141 million tenge was spent on utility bills, 320 million tenge - on one-time support.
thus, 955 international observers and representatives of foreign media are currently accredited.
The Republic of Kazakhstan and Adb have been cooperating closely for more than 20 years.
In 2016, 97 billion tenge was allocated to support private developers through the samruk treasury "ubh."
The document can be signed by the EAEU countries by the end of 2016.
According to the speaker, the chairmen of the central election commission sent invitations to 18 foreign states, the first heads of central election bodies.
Note that the bank still invests 6.5 billion euros in various sectors of the country's economy, this year it plans to invest 700 million euros.
In October 2015, the President of Kazakhstan signed a law on the ratification of these documents.
statistics show that about 25 thousand school graduates remain without a mandate.
In 2016, it is planned to increase the export of meat products to 12,000 tons per year.
today we are talking about a decrease in tax revenues to the budget by almost 20%.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, for 24 years Kazakhstan has become an authoritative, recognized country of the world.
in the message of the head of state to the people of the country, the Development Strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2050 was presented.
In Kazakhstan in 2015, the share of meat processing amounted to 31%, milk processing - 39%. the share of meat processing in kazakhstan amounted to 31 % in 2015 , the proportion of milk processing - 39 % .
the production capacity of each electric lyser is 2440 kg of aluminum per day.
To date, 396 billion tenge of investments have been attracted to the region, 465 billion tenge at the end of the year, "the akim said.
In 2015, solar panels were installed on the roofs of more than 1 million houses in Australia.
Currently, under the program "Nұrly zhol" the construction of 20 multi-storey residential buildings is underway.
187 graduates were sent to undergo youth practice, 26 people were employed in social jobs.
In general, this year 4 billion 691 million tenge was allocated for the development of sports in Almaty region.
Also, 20 places in kindergarten will be devoted to children from socially vulnerable segments of the population.
Within the framework of foreign trips, Kazakhstan has concluded 275 economic agreements worth 60 billion dollars, "the head of state said.
198 employment centers serve 1 million 800-2 million people, he said.
In 2015, as part of a public-private partnership, an order for 525 places was completed in kindergartens.
Currently, in the railway industry of Kazakhstan, 16 thousand people work in locomotive crews.
16 million tenge was spent on the construction of a two-story building.
For six months in the new annexes of the law akimats of the regions legalized property worth 315 billion tenge.
preliminary participation in the upcoming Games was confirmed by 16 countries.
The first festival "Flame of Youth" was organized in 2013.
One of them is the Erkem-ai kindergarten with 280 seats.
Financing of 2743 projects totaling 36 billion tenge was also supported.
today 95% of cargo from Asia is delivered by sea to Europe.
To date, there are 11 specialized CSPs in Kazakhstan to provide services to car owners.
Residents and guests of the capital will be able to see the exhibition from June 4 to 5.
this is 3 times less than the same period last year. sultans.
Following the event, businessmen of the two countries signed 50 cooperation agreements worth about $1 billion.
Over the course of 5 years, new methods for the development of the missile defense system were used.
- In Aktobe, in connection with the construction of a new local maslikhat, 8 new polling stations will be convenient for voters in connection with the construction of residential buildings.
The head of the directorate noted that the construction of Student Games-2017 facilities is 60% ready.
In 2015, Poland adopted a law on renewable energy sources.
Currently, 19 units have been imported, construction work is underway on concrete bases.
"513 projects worth 56 billion tenge have been approved since the beginning of the implementation of the Business Roadmap program.
Thus, in total, 75 countries and 14 international organizations confirmed their participation in the current conditions.
According to our data, to date 74% of Kazakhstan's building materials are used for the production of construction materials, "he said.
Thus, 725 international observers and foreign media representatives are currently accredited.	thus , currently 725 international observers and foreign media have been accredited .	3,22
in his speech, the entrepreneur noted that the holding "since this summer has been preparing 2 thousand 600 teachers for college.
Despite the crisis, since January 1, we have increased the salary of health workers by 28%.
All our achievements over 25 years are the result of your active participation in various fields.
90% of all gold mined in the country is processed from us, "said the head of state.
Currently, Kazakhstan is our fourth major market among 36 countries. today , kazakhstan is our fourth largest market from 36 different countries .
Since January 1, 2016, the judicial system consists of two commissions - qualification and disciplinary.
Recall, on November 30, the head of state published an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan.
The increase in the Kazakh content at the plant by 2020 will be 70%.
Akim of Akmola region Sergey Vitalyevich Kulagin - until December 31, 2018;
Over the 13 years of its existence, the Eurasian Media Forum has expanded its borders. over 13 years , the eurasian media forum has achieved much .
Under the agreement, in 2016, a supply of 14 tons of gold was signed.
To date, 11 water supply projects worth 3.24 billion tenge have been supported.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the national chamber, created in 2013, has done a lot of work over the years.
Thanks to this, over 10 years, life expectancy has increased to 72 years.
This year, we began the implementation of the initiative of the head of state - the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
our company has been producing tosol and antifreeze since 2002. our company is engaged in the production of antifreeze since 2002 .
350 services to investors. "
For 4 months of 2016, uranium production amounted to more than 8.1 thousand tons.
in total, they have more than 93 thousand members, "said B. Meldeshov.
they invested 40 billion tenge, last year products worth more than 14 billion tenge were produced.
Much attention was paid to ways of achieving the goals of 100 specific plans of the nation.
350 million tenge was allocated for this project as part of the state program "Forced Industrial and Innovative Development."
Since the beginning of the year, social contracts have been concluded in the region with more than 11 thousand citizens.
In order for agricultural investors to be able to recover their expenses, it takes 25 years, only work prescribed by law. agricultural investors need 25 years to recoup their costs .
It is worth noting that the partnership of ktzh and Austrian companies begins in 2003.
The competition will be attended by 141 teams from 34 universities and more than 1000 students.
In total, more than 70 events are planned in the capital as part of the March holiday.
The total cost of the project is 250 million US dollars, and 250-300 jobs will be created.
more than 100 thousand children who were schoolchildren yesterday remain outside higher education, "said the head of the Ministry of Education and Science.
This year we received 124 people, of which 50% are employed, "he said.
A team of 17 students of South Kazakhstan region held a competition on 13 projects.
As noted by chakrabarti, investments invested in Kazakhstan last year amounted to 700 million euros.
in the next 10 years, it is necessary to cover the annual growth of the economy by 5%.
According to the project operator, production will resume at the end of 2016.
Theme of the press conference: "Implementation of the Plan of the Nation" 100 concrete steps "
It is worth noting that on February 22, the first meeting of the International Council at the Supreme Court was held in the capital.
Also in the area of ​ ​ the Titov microdistrict, 120 young families received keys to apartments.
40 materials were transferred to law enforcement agencies. "
A total of 124.5 thousand square meters of housing will be commissioned in 2015.
- After independence in 1991 Kazakhstan chose its own path.
Last year, the Accounts Committee carried out 29 control measures at 303 facilities.
Thus, by 2020, it is planned to attract 5 million women to business around the world.
institutional and structural reforms within 100 concrete steps are relevant and advisable in Kazakhstan. "
It is worth noting that today on March 20, meetings and elections of maslikhats of all levels are held.
Recall that the law on the celebration of the first President of Kazakhstan was adopted in the first December 2011.
Kazakhstan also rose by 14 positions in the ranking of the UN Human Development Index.
The amount transferred to bank accounts amounted to 978 billion tenge, "the Minister of Finance said at a government meeting.
Governor of Almaty region Gabbasulov - November 22, 2020 inclusive;
In the direction of the Kazakhstan mortgage company it is planned to build 10 multi-storey houses in the amount of 10 million tenge.
30 new jobs will be created at the 3 MW station.
30 million tenge was spent on the purchase of a grain processing and treatment network.
In 2017, instead of the current VAT, it is necessary to introduce a sales tax.
in Kazakhstan, the share of women in entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized businesses is 41%.
The term for concluding an exploration agreement has been reduced from 2 to 25 days.
At the end of 2015, the total volume of investments amounted to 227 billion tenge.	at the end of 2015 the total investment in the fixed assets amounted to 227 billion tenge .	3,25
This year, the exhibition was attended by more than 115 thousand specialists in the field of tourism, 50 thousand visitors.	this year the itb berlin was attended by 115 thousand professionals in the tourism sector , 50 thousand visitors .	3,25
According to the department, in 2016 3 projects were put into operation, it is planned to introduce 6 projects.	thus , according to the ministry , in 2016 3 projects have been put into operation , it is planned to introduce 6 more .	3,25
In general, the party is completing campaigning work on the election campaign, which will begin on February 20.	in general , according to him , the party completes preparations for the election campaign , which will start on 20 february .	3,25
the share of these funds in the overall strategic portfolio was more than a quarter (27%).	the share of these funds in the overall strategic portfolio amounted to more than a quarter ( 27 % ) .	3,25
230 athletes took part in the championship, of which 27 were women.	nearly 230 athletes , including 27 women contested in nine weight categories .	3,26
therefore, by the end of the year the price will be 40 tenge, - said T.Dokayev.
In addition, the "when" oil production plan for 2016 is 11.6 million tons, gas - 17.5 billion cubic meters. l.
8 . Head of the Kyzylorda regional branch of the Birlik party of Shaukamans Nurlan Seilbekovich
As a result, the center of the region is already provided with natural gas by 95%.
today we accredit 12 ecu/diak mission observers. there is mission 's head boris frlec among these 12 observers , and observers of the main group , " member of the cec tatyana okhlopkova said .
despite this, the proportion of young people under the age of 29 was 50.1% (1899 people).
4 . The removal of the procedure for changing the purpose of agricultural land.
If in 2014 6.7 billion tenge was allocated for egg production, in 2015 9.7 billion tenge is provided.
Kazakhstan has a share of European countries in 50% of trade and more than 50% of foreign investment.
strong state support - providing 100% vocational technical education free of charge. the most powerful support of the state is free 100 percent professional technical education .
25 sites in Asia, 4 in southern and northern America, 1 in Africa, 20 in Europe, 15 in the CIS.
Since 2016, all executive documents have been issued to private bailiffs. thus , from 2016 the private bailiffs will deal with all categories of the executive documents .
The volume of investments in projects amounted to 100 billion tenge, 800 new jobs were created, "he said.
of which 9% is paid by the entrepreneur, the remaining difference is subsidized by the state. of these , 9 % will be paid by the entrepreneur , and the difference will be subsidized by the state .
Under the "Nұrly zhol" program in Shymkent, 74 residential buildings for 4271 apartments were rented.
Currently, 80 people diagnosed with influenza are being treated in hospitals.
To date, 928 such memoranda have been concluded in the amount of 1.4 trillion tenge, "said B. Sagintayev.
The President noted that today 40 thousand experts from 30 countries of the world are connected to this site.
So, in 2012-2015, 9 sports complexes were commissioned in the region (Taraz-5, Sarysu-1, Talas-1, Moyinkum-1, Moyinkum-1).
To date, the terms of legalization of property have been extended until December 31, 2016.
It is planned that the company will produce 25 thousand units (screens) and 38 thousand units (led-equipment) per year.
The new model was adopted by government decree No. 1193 of 31 December, designed to satisfy domestic and international wage-setting experience.
Since October 2014 - Deputy Chairman of the Aerospace Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This year it is planned to hold 7 test events for testing Winter Universiade facilities.
in the direction of "white" and "transmashholding" left 25% of the shares.
On the last day of the first phase of the peacekeeping exercise, 10 training points were deployed.
Sailors Mikhail Vitalyevich, born in 1981, constantly passing by, died in front of the Panther store, a 13-year-old son remained.
According to him, according to the forecast for 2016, the number of birds in the country is 36 million people.
It is planned that more than 450 thousand citizens will take part in the elections, "said A. Surkhanov.
In the first year of the second five-year plan of the state program of industrial and innovative development, 7 projects worth 6.3 billion tenge were implemented.
The Mission plans to meet from today until 16 March.	in addition , the television debate will be held on 16 march , where we will be present too .	3,27
today 6 people work here, the average monthly salary of which is 70 thousand tenge.	the company employs 6 people , the average monthly salary of employees is 70 thousand tenge .	3,27
project capacity - 8 tons of milk powder per day.	the plant will produce 8 tons of dried camel milk per day .	3,27
He also noted that 28 long-term observers from 11 countries will arrive next week.	he also said that it is expected 28 long-term observers from 11 countries to arrive next week .	3,28
We hope that in 2016 you will find travel and new discoveries.	we hope that in 2016 all of us are waiting for travel and new experiences .	3,28
such types and principles of social assistance will be introduced from 2018.	such kinds and principles of the social assistance will be implemented starting 2018 .	3,28
Kazakhstan collected more than 100 million tons of solid garbage, that is, 5-6 million tons of garbage per year.	in kazakhstan , there were about 100 million tons of municipal solid waste , it is about 5-6 million tons per year .	3,28
in preschool organizations, communication was conducted in 2 languages: Kazakh and Russian.	communication in the preschool institutions was conducted in 2 languages : kazakh and russian .	3,28
According to the head of state, this year it is planned to introduce 30 schools in the first class.	the president has noted that this year it is planned to introduce it for the first grade at 30 schools .	3,28
Kazakhstan engineering group of companies "uk" has signed 12 documents to date.
the potential of hydrocarbon raw materials of the Caspian Depression is estimated at 63 billion tons of conventional fuel.
the remaining 4 industrial zones are at the stage of commissioning, "said M. Turabekov.
In 2016, 240 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of 9 projects, "said A. Issekeshev.
In 2014, this figure was 2.7 billion euros, "said B. Duysenbaev.
This decree is effective from January 1, 2016. "
In May 2016, guarantees in the amount of 17.5 million tenge were issued with a loan cost of 40 million tenge.
The construction of the regional multidisciplinary children's hospital with 200 beds continues in Kyzylorda.
1785 heads of cattle were issued in workshops, 15 tons of meat were exported.
The construction of one of the planned campsites will be completed in 2016 and will be commissioned.
At the end of 2015, 40% of applicants passed the ego and CES. at the end of 2015 , 40 % of all applicants filed documents via egov and pscs , " - he added .
According to him, at the end of 2015, labor market indicators improved.
we have a lot of cars, the metro transports more than 30 thousand people per hour.
80% of manufactured products are supplied to the domestic market, 20% - to imports.
our Kazakh dream is to enter the 30 developed countries of the world. all kazakhtanis have the dream - kazakhstan to join the top 30 developed countries .
As a result of the measures taken, 373 jobs were created, 2910 jobs were saved.
During the reporting period of 2015, grain bases received more than 19 thousand tons of grain.
In the region lies 990 km of roads of republican significance. on the territory of atyrau region there are 990 km of roads of the national importance .
19 participants from three countries, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Kyrgyzstan, were selected for the project. the project selected 19 participants from three countries : the republic of kazakhstan , the russian federation and kyrgyzstan .
In general, over the past year, 94 projects worth 5 billion tenge were implemented in the agro-industrial complex.
65 polling stations with the powers of the Republic of Kazakhstan are located in 51 foreign countries. 65 polling stations for kazakhstan 's offices in 51 foreign countries have been opened .
In 2015, an important event for us was the signing of a strategic agreement with the Samruk Kazyna Foundation.
Since 2013, participates in various world and international exhibitions.
Since 2017, a "free vocational project for all" will be launched.
For these reasons, the deadlines for the completion of the project were postponed to 2016, "the report said.
7 teams left comprehensive schools in Kokshetau.	7 teams of secondary schools of kokshetau participated in the competitions .	3,29
Kazakhstan is the main partner of Germany in central Asia, 82% of foreign trade of which is in Kazakhstan.	kazakhstan is the main partner of germany in central asia , which accounts for 82 % of country 's foreign trade with the region .	3,29
priority use is planned for October 2017 (30 thousand tons of meat per year in live weight).	the commissioning of the first stage ( 30 thousand tons in live weight per year ) is scheduled for october 2017 .	3,29
During the year, more than 12 thousand people were employed under this program.	over the last year , more than 12 thousand people got permanent jobs under this program .	3,29
By 2020, oil production will reach 13 million tons, "the vice minister said.
Last year, we invested 120 million euros in agriculture, "he said.
According to the head of state, during this time the volume of the national economy has grown 23 times.
the share of domestic products in the hypermarket is 60 percent of the total product range.
In addition, in 2016, the construction of 60 projects with the participation of foreign investors will begin.
in terms of these indicators, our country ranks 17th among 37 regional members.
A program has been developed to save energy and increase energy efficiency until 2020.
8 . Shakir Khakhazov - Member of the Board of Directors of the Dungan Association of Ethnocultural Centers
By 2018, I mandate to cover all needs with the products of domestic enterprises. i 'm putting a task- to cover the needs of our domestic market by oil products in 2018 completely .
65% of investments are EU investments, "said the director of the scientific center.
As a result, 17% of the waiting lists received housing in the city over the year.
In the period from 2005 to 2015, the CEC sent 1310 Kazakh observers to 105 elections in foreign countries.
in addition, 121 settlements are provided with a safe transport route.
Currently, there are about 627 thousand people with disabilities in the country.
The mission headquarters will begin work on February 26 this year, "said E. Sloboda.
From January 1, 2016, the state will allocate investment subsidies to agricultural producers.
In 2014, the Toyota machine-building plant was launched in Kostanay.
By the end of this year, 34 SME projects will implement engineering infrastructure worth 16.5 billion tenge.
The results showed that teachers know their subjects 30% higher.
In 2014, many of my paintings were exhibited at an exhibition in other countries.
According to the market data, Kazakhstan is among the 25 countries with the optimal investment climate. according to the unctad information ( united nations conference on trade and development - united nations general assembly authority ) , kazakhstan is among 25 countries that have improved the investment policy of the country .
From January 1, 2017, the universal declaration of income and expenses will enter into force.
According to forecast information, by 2025 this figure could grow to 8 million tons.
The National Plan of 100 Concrete Steps provides for measures to support young people.
in two kindergartens commissioned, 35 local residents were employed.
According to preliminary data, it is scheduled to be held in the capital in April 2016.
It was also noted that 15% of small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan are developing in Almaty.
62 people were employed in the social sphere, 220 citizens were sent to youth practice.
From January 1, 2017, the register will be canceled, "the department said.
The Order of the Big Star was awarded to N. Nazarbayev in 2000.
70 new jobs will be created, "the Governor said.
3 . Head of the Property and Assets Department of the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kuanyshbaev Rose
this is 77% of all investments in the manufacturing sector since independence, "said A. Issekeshev.
Today, all countries of the world have recognized our independence, 120 countries have established diplomatic relations.
It is worth noting that in Afghanistan in 2015, 62.3 billion dollars were allocated.
As part of the "new opportunities" program in 2016-2017, 40 ambassadors' briefings will be held in the capital.
- The first container train arrived from eastern China to Iran in 12 days.
Over a month, more than 12 thousand people wrote on social networks on the pages of Astana 109.
On April 15, the premiere of the opera Madame Butterfly will take place at the Metropolitan Opera.
in the East Kazakhstan region, the local police brought together more than 2 thousand employees.
Within the framework of 5 institutional reforms, one of the reforms involves the professionalization of the public service.
The presidential decree approved the Concept for the development of physical culture and sports in the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025. decree of the head of state approved the concept of development of physical culture and sports of the republic of kazakhstan till 2025 .
In 2010, when Kazakhstan headed, he was the commissioner for transport issues.
2015 was full of state or world-class events. 2015 was very rich in a variety of events both at the state and the world levels .
this reduced the wear of heat networks in the city by 10% (from 61% to 51%).
according to statistics, 17 thousand Germans are concentrated on the territory of society.
to date, more than 124 million different services have been provided to citizens.
of them, it is planned to provide facilities in the amount of 38 billion tenge, "said B.Baibek.
To date, more than 103 thousand avatars have 25.el.kz issued through the service. nowadays more than 103 thousands of profile photos have been decorated through 25.el.kz webportal , users ' geography is growing every day .
30% of the state order falls on the private sector, the business invested 100 billion tenge in kindergartens.
Since 2010, the Development Fund has financed 2.3 thousand entrepreneurs in the amount of 20 trillion tenge.
As of June 1, the contractor paid 32 billion 318 million tenge or 88 sisters of the allocated amounts.
Note that this year 10 companies received a "business" prize.
Accreditation is held until March 14, 2016, "said T. Okhlopkova.
In 2015, the volume of white cargo "bklk" increased.
they produce 400 tons of products per month.
80% of our documents are an example in the CIS countries.
The cost of 5-liter oil is 1700 tenge, and one liter - 300 tenge.
To date, 83 States and 14 international organizations have officially participated.
Also March 1 is the day of the creation of the party "Nұr Otan."
Note that in the piggy bank of athletes from Yuko 12 tickets to the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
now we have 150 thousand children (from the age of 6), 180 thousand do not study. we have 150 thousand children ( who begin to study at 6 years old ) , 180 thousand are not learning .
in the region there are 15 enterprises that form the system, which provide 47% of all production products.
On the same day, the working group visited the Rakhat Shymkent factory, which produces 8 thousand tons of confectionery per year.
In total, 301 district election commissions are involved, "said A.Markov.
however, on December 7 of this year, the couple approved a resolution on the adoption of the declaration.
By the end of the year, it remains to make budget operations worth 161 billion tenge for the remaining 4 days.
Report on repair works in the courtyards, etc. Abylai Khan 30 was compiled by the organizers of the projects of Engineer dor project LLP for 12 million tenge.
38 objects and securities worth 1044.4 million tenge were legalized.
Outside the industrialization map, 74 projects worth 24.3 billion tenge are planned to be implemented.
For the period from June 2014 to March 2016, 24 objects are planned for sale.
She has been working for 20 years, "he said.
According to the head of the region, the trade turnover of Aktobe region with these countries is 150 million dollars.
In addition, 100 people from Aktobe region will be involved in the volunteer movement EXPO-2017.
passenger turnover amounted to 60.8 billion dkm and increased by 1%.
557 from the capital, 205 from Alma-Ata, 1244 aircraft were launched from the regions, interregional 14 flights were completed.
The unemployment rate among people of this age in 2015 amounted to 5.1%.
archaeological research materials will be presented on May 18 at the exhibition "ancestral heritage."
This year, 10 appeals were received to the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, "he said.
2015 was a very significant year, rich in achievements and problems in the economy. 2015 was full of the serious meaning , great achievements and problems in the economy , but i think these problems are temporary .
mandatory requirement - 5 years of participation in court cases.
37 memoranda worth $1.5 billion were sold, 4% were raised.
greenhouse complex for vegetable production in a closed place is located on an area of ​ ​ 3 hectares.
57.1 tons of meat in the amount of 19.8 million tenge and 800 million. Tenge grain was produced.
95% of legalized property is residential buildings, the rest is commercial objects.
It is worth noting that 3 kindergartens have been opened in Reeds.
The event was attended by more than 10 thousand people from 50 labor collectives of 4 regions of Kazakhstan.
As of June 1, 2016, 744.8 million tenge or 97% was used.
March 20 is a day of silence, "said B. Meldeshov.
In accordance with the memorandum, the Governor's Office of the region plans to provide 1 billion tenge, and the Development Fund - 2 billion tenge.
The Development Fund allocated 1 billion tenge for the implementation of the program, the city akimat allocated 500 million tenge, "he said.
Therefore, we hope that there will be 5 million visitors and 2.5 participants.
From February 15 to March 15 the train "The M G_l_k Ate" visited 30 settlements in 12 regions of the country.
According to him, currently representatives of nurmash are negotiating with 15 companies.
The beginning of 2016 began with a wave of terrorist acts in each country. the beginning of 2016 was marked by another wave of terrorist attacks in the different parts of the world .
in only two months, in December and January, 160 billion tenge was legalized.
Yesterday, the head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of the parliament on March 20, 2016.
70 commissioners were appointed from these countries, 50 participation agreements were signed.
In 2015, 54.5 billion tenge was involved in the economy of the region with an increase of 128.4%, "the akim said.
Since 1992, the President of Kazakhstan has taken the initiative to create kha. kazakhstan president proposed to initiate kazakhstan people 's assembly in 1992 , which is a unique institution in the field of national politics .
implementation of simple projects will be considered 30 days, and complexity - 60 days.	the term of consideration for projects is 30 - 60 days .	3,40
the "golden collegium" was awarded to three, and the "silver collegium" to 10 women.
According to the Governor's Office of the city, the total cost of the concluded memoranda is more than 48 billion tenge.
We know that Egypt recognized us in 1991 within the Arab States.
- Ensure annual economic growth of 5 per cent;
The association took a 50-40 percent place in the country's politics and economy. the association has taken a place in the politics and economy of our country , if not 50 , then 40 % sure .
housing was built as part of the program "Development of regions until 2020."
revenues to the state budget amounted to 850 billion tenge, which is 11% more than in 2014.
Recall that on March 20 of this year, early elections to the Majilis of parliament and maslikhats of all levels will be held.
Since January 1, 2016, solidarity pension payments have increased by 9%.
2 billion 245 million tenge will be allocated for the project aimed at employment of 100 people.
this is 2.7 times more than in 2014.
Gratitude Day, established by decree of the head of state, is celebrated on March 1, 2016. gratefulness day , the new holiday , established by the head of state , will be celebrated on march 1 , 2016 for the first time .
Since 2017, everyone will be launched a new project "Free technical and professional education."
For about 35 years I have been working in the field of education.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that "Kazakhstan was among the 50 best innovative economies in the world."
a new section of the Pavlodar-Shymkent oil pipeline was commissioned in March 2016.
Kazakhstan proposes to convene a UN high-level international conference in 2016.
The party leader called for early elections on January 29. the leader of the party signed a decree on an extraordinary , xvii party congress on january 29 in astana .
Note that in the framework of the project "Big Country - Big Family" until 2018, 35 socially significant events will be held.
48.8% of chromium oxide reserves in the deposit are 19 million tons.
6 times less than in the Kazakh steppes.
According to the party secretariat, 2 thousand people will take part in the extraordinary XVII congress.
From January 1, 2017, all registries will be canceled, "he said.
Recall that the action will last until December 16, 2016.
the final rate for farmers is 5 per cent per annum.
33 social charitable projects worth 1 billion tenge will be presented in Kazakhstan, "N. Kalashnikov said.
The exhibition is expected to be visited by 2 million people.
This year it is planned to complete 4 projects worth 4.8 billion tenge as part of the state program of industrial and innovative development.
To date, the contact center advises about 700 public services.
In addition, two new brick factories with a total capacity of 45 million pieces of brick were opened in the city of Kyzylorda and the region of the island.
It is worth noting that the amount allocated for this event is 10 billion tenge.
first, this year marks 25 years of independence.
if this is 24% of the wage fund, now - 7%.
The composition of the public council was approved by order of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan of February 29, 2016.
It is worth noting that 56% of the approved villages are in the village.
We expect more than 15 thousand Malaysians to come to the expo 2017 exhibition, "he said.
The snow ring 2015 auto race, the city cup in rhythmic gymnastics, also took place.
According to the minister, the national company Kazgeologiya attracted 10 large investors to the industry.
To date, Kazakhstan has concluded 48 agreements, each of which is aimed at the development of the investment sector.
Also on May 29, a meeting of investors will be held, the topic of the meeting: "The capital is an international financial center."
Competitions will be deployed at 21 military training grounds, including two Kazakhstani ones.
According to German statistics, bilateral trade in 2015 amounted to 4.06 billion euros.
Over the past 10 years, more than 3 thousand individuals and legal entities have become our customers.
From January 1, 2016, one window will be available for all investors.
The country is faced with the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses in lending to the holding was 88%.
According to the minister, the contract area is only 12% - 137 thousand square meters. km
15 million years ago, this territory was similar to the African savanna.
Over the years, the country's national bank has purchased 76 tons of domestic gold bullion.
In 2017, the implementation of a new project "Free vocational education for all" will begin.
2,500 new jobs will be created, "the report said.
annual interest rates for all projects will be reduced from 7% to 10%.
In total, 43 kindergartens and 31 mini-centers at schools operate in the Toleby district.
If we talk about plans for this year, then we plan to implement 10 projects. speaking about future plans , this year we are going to commission 10 projects .
12 projects worth 1 billion tenge are being implemented under the program, "he said.
From June 10, 2016 to June 9, 2017, the pre-sale period is valid.
7 of them were handed over due to accidents and 7 due to a lack of school places.
This year, 46 new polling stations were opened. because of the increase in population , this year 46 new polling stations have been created .
in the UK, the cost of the phd program and training is 4 thousand dollars for 200 years and 400 thousand dollars.
As part of the 5 institutional reforms of the National Plan, 59 new laws were adopted by Parliament. the parliament adopted 59 new laws for the legislative support of 5 institutional reforms of the nation plan .
7 . head of the Zhambyl regional branch of the Birlik party
In this regard, a logical question arises why this holiday, widely celebrated in Kazakhstan, was established on December 1.
Competitions will be deployed at 21 military training grounds, including two Kazakhstani ones.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs specified 10 countries that will be priority.
Now we are implementing the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
In the month since the opening of the workshop, 12 furniture headsets were made.
the project provides for the expansion of the existing terminal and bringing the capacity to 7 million passengers per year.
The winners of the regional competition will receive prizes for participation in the republican competition "sake kazakhstan 2016."
Construction of the centre began in March 2012 and was to be completed in December 2013.
production of mineral products increased by 3.2%, clothing - by 4%.
According to him, 54 women received financial assistance.
the enterprise created more than 400 new jobs, mainly for women.
This forum has been held on an ongoing basis since 2013.
In total, there are 1700 units of equipment in the communal park of the capital.
Recall that the gathering "Aybyn" will last until June 18.
In 2015-2016, 44 social facilities were selected: kindergarten, school, hospital, educational institutions.
25 years ago, the people of Kazakhstan gained independence and embarked on a new path of development.
As part of industrialization, about a thousand new enterprises worth 4 trillion tenge were commissioned.
Also, 147 accredited representatives of foreign banks take part in international election control.
The plan of the nation "100 concrete steps" are concrete steps.
This direction was announced in the Association for the Development of the Future Strategy until 2017.
Kazakhstan 20 years ago and today Kazakhstan is a diverse public environment.
In the message of the head of state of November 30, 2015, priority was given to issues of social security.
The relapse of law enforcement officers decreased by 33%, "he said.
All 5 reforms were involved in creating unity, stability in many of our national societies. all 5 reforms aimed to strengthen the identity , unity and stability in our society .
it is planned that from next year the capacity will be 5 thousand tons of products per year.
Within three months, 5 million guests will take part in the exhibition.
these funds will be used to support 250 small and medium-sized businesses.
It is expected that at the launch of the new project 500 new jobs will be created.
The number of unemployed according to estimates in March 2016 amounted to 455.1 thousand people.
In addition, the winners received certificates from East Kazakhstan region in the amount of 5 million tenge.
15 categories of citizens of Kazakhstan should not bear any costs for medical insurance. 15 categories of citizens of kazakhstan do not have to deduct the health insurance .
This year, the university will replenish 622 students, "the head of state said.
In total, 162 projects are being implemented in 11 industrial zones of the region.
The amount of investments for new projects is about 21 billion tenge, 224 jobs will be created.
According to the minister, over the past 10 years, industrial injuries have halved.
our servicemen will be represented in all nominations, or rather - in 21 competitions.
The remaining 40% decided to continue their studies.
investments in fixed assets are 107% compared to last year. the investments in fixed assets have amounted to 107 % compared to last year .
Within 3 years, we plan to train 400 people, "said the rector.
zero duty will be valid until May 2019. the zero rate of duty will be valid until the end of may 2019 .
According to the national company, this year 14 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes.
Currently, 730 people in 18 sports train in it.
today 21 women receive grants, they have created 50 thousand jobs.
This year, fields and seedlings of peaches will be planted on 100 hectares.
its construction will begin on May 28, "said Mr. Amireev, deputy akim of the region.
In this regard, 10 thousand workers work on construction sites, he said.
The Secretary of State noted that 300 women in Kazakhstan are working to improve their rights.
As for the construction sector in 2015, we see an increase of 4.3%. as for the construction sector , we see a positive trend - the increase of 4.3 % in 2015 .
They are: "100 steps," "bright path."
This year, another 12 feed sites for 16.9 thousand heads will be commissioned.
As the expert noted, the last 20 years of our independence have become "star."
The number of unemployed according to estimates in February 2016 amounted to 456.5 thousand people.
We conducted comprehensive inspections in 5 regions, "he said.
the availability of places in kindergartens increased by almost 21% compared to 2014. provision of places in kindergartens was increased by almost 21 % compared to 2014 year .
The Almaty development program until 2020 provides for attracting foreign capital.
In 2016, the republican budget provides 225 billion tenge for the implementation of these goals. but in 2016 the national budget has a special reserve in the amount of 225 billion tenge for this purpose .
In 2015, agricultural production in the republic amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge.
351 kilometers of total kilometer of cement concrete, 144 km of asphalt concrete surface.
interest rate - 7.9% per annum, loan term - up to 7 years.
camping includes a dining room for 80 people, a hotel with 16 seats and a bath.
In 2011, a service for paying housing utility bills was opened.
it was signed in Astana on December 21, 2015.
In 2016, it is planned to produce more than 24 thousand 80 tons of uranium, "said B. Bozumbayev.
Currently, 17 appeals are under consideration by the commission.
In order to provide them with legislation, Parliament has adopted 59 new laws.
25 years ago, Kazakhstan was the first in the world to finally close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
For 11 years, 30 thousand gifted children took part in the festival.
today, 1.7 billion people from 56 states live in the Islamic world. today the islamic world is home to over 1.7 billion people in 56 countries .
Dulat Kazakhpayev was born in 1962 in the Wisconsin region.
The head of the department noted that the kvtsag will be sold at a price of 9 tenge.
the world, including Kazakhstan, has survived many impostors over 24 years.
According to him, literate training was introduced in 41 subjects of Kazakhstan.
By agreement with President Erdogan, we must bring this figure to $10 billion.
I support the law coming into force on July 1, 2016. i approve of the law , which will be introduced from 1 july 2016 on the private ownership of land for the subjects of agriculture .
In the institution, children aged 3 to 6 years are brought up in 6 groups.
He noted that over the past 8 years, 20 research laboratories have been opened.
The company offers 400 new jobs based on women.
In March 2015, a council of business women was created in the region.
Women in decision-making positions in major cities, such as the capital and Almaty, accounted for 50 per cent of that position.
In May, farmers will receive another 300 million tenge.
the implementation of such a system is planned from January 1, 2017.
the total length is 4726 km, the high-speed train overcame it in 6 days.
Timely decision of the government to allocate 100 billion tenge to finance the agro-industrial complex. very timely the government decided to allocate 100 billion tenge for the financing of an agriculture sector .
Last year, 2 more posts for 10 km were added.
At the same time, 20 projects worth 59.9 million tenge were allowed under the grant.
10 scholarships to 10 business schools in the world under the iam program.
20 million tenge is allocated from the city and district budget for these purposes. for these purposes , the budgets provided 20 million tenge , " - said n. abdibekov .
Kazpost is registered on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a worldwide postal organization consisting of 180 states. kazpost represents the republic of kazakhstan in the universal postal union , which counts more than 180 countries .
In addition, in 2014, the Kazakh-Czech Chamber of Commerce was established in Prague.
three of them will be launched in the first half of 2016.
the total sown area of ​ ​ the farm exceeds 29 thousand getas.
The total investment is $250 million.
local police officers have been working since January 1.
80 industrial projects were implemented, including the current year. more than 80 industrial projects have been implemented , including this year .
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, 9,757 people live in it.
we have embarked on the practical implementation of the "100 concrete steps" plan of the nation.
legalized 51 object and securities in the amount of 1,176,4 million tenge.
and after the launch of the plant - 68 people.
A contract worth $4 million was concluded between domestic enterprises and Tajiks.
According to the observer, from March 16, short-term observers will begin to arrive.
Strategy 2050 is an entry into the 30 developed countries of the world.
The World and Asian Bank forecast significant growth in Kazakhstan in 2016.
A roadmap has been drawn up for the implementation of each of the 5 institutional reforms of the president.
In 2016, 350.0 thousand tons of phosphorus flour will be sent to Russia.
In 4 months (January-April) 4 million 230 thousand tons were processed, "- said K. bozumbayev.
within 30 business days if the recipient is not found.
In March-April, as part of the Green Country program, 5,500 tree seedlings were sown.
The Commission on legalization of property decided to legalize 87 applications (residential buildings) worth more than 571 million tenge.
the pavilion hosted a book exhibition dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On March 1, the President of Kazakhstan will take part in solemn events dedicated to the Day of Gratitude.
According to estimates in April 2016, the number of unemployed amounted to 439.3 thousand people.
6 . Natalia Jumadildaeva - Chairman of the Council of Mothers in Kyzylorda region
A total of 964 international observers and foreign media were registered.
the total area of ​ ​ the planned construction is 16 thousand square meters.
investments in the amount of more than 163 billion tenge were attracted to housing construction in the region.
the implementation of the project will contribute to the creation of 105 new jobs.
introduction of this unit will increase energy efficiency of the station by 25%. introducing new block , the plant increases energy efficiency by 25 % .
for example, 8 thousand tenge per day along with food, entertainment.
4,369 memoranda on mutual cooperation with private business entities have been signed.
currently egg products provide 100% of the needs in our country.
We will fully provide children with preschool education in 2017.
The Venice Commission consists of 47 States parties to the Council of Europe.
It will be paid as part of the changes and additions made to the 2015 budget.
In the remaining 52 facilities, construction work is moving to the next 2017.
This center, built in 1954, employs 176 specialists.
the total area of the complex of our enterprise is about 7,000 construction square meters.
at the titanomagnetic plant of the usher in 2010, the production of titanium ingots began.
In 2015, according to the results of the championship, the capital took first place in the republic.
Following the meeting, the meeting participants agreed to hold a second meeting in 2016.
the party can add another 30% to this figure.
construction of a medical center in 4 villages of Aktobe region.
500 tons of tomatoes of Japanese and Dutch varieties will be collected from one greenhouse.
3) take other measures to implement this decree.
For 25 years we have been building a state of equal and equal people.
More than 43 thousand employees were employed at the enterprises with which the memoranda were concluded.
To date, 344 objects have been built in the administrative and business center of the left bank.
for the same period last year, this indicator amounted to 170 thousand tons of grain.
14 young and experienced masters of the poetic genre.
state revenue agencies legalized 53,646 objects worth 403.9 billion tenge
conferences on the election of congress delegates are being completed, the congress will be held on February 3.
Over the past 6 years, 7 thousand cars of 25 brands have been created here: ssangyong, peugeot, geely, iveco, toyota, hyundai, jac.
the first electric locomotive will be delivered to Baku in January 2017.
The goal is to be among the 30 developed countries until 2050.
we predict that oil production will stabilize in 2017.
The event will be attended by organizations from 200 countries.
The university's piggy bank has 9 medals: 3 gold, 4 silver and 2 bronze.
during the implementation of these projects, 440 new jobs will be created in the region.
The total balance sheet reserves of the company amount to about 3 billion tons of coal.
66 countries and three international organizations are currently members.
2 automobile clusters were created - in the cities of Kostanay and Rostock.
in total, about 10,000 people were involved in creating the picture.
It analyzed regulatory mechanisms in 10 thematic areas in 40 countries.
So far, 2 tons of vegetable oil have been exported to China.
in addition, the area of ​ ​ the Indian pavilion is 550 square meters.
According to N.Nazarbayev, 75% of courtrooms are covered by audio recording.
Of the 180 thousand children, children have not gone to school since the age of 6.
"In 2015, 695 projects worth 100 billion tenge were implemented.
And in 2015, about 80 thousand children were born in the region.
In 2015, 318 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
5 . this decree shall be effective from the date of signature. "
In 2015, the number of unemployed in Aktobe region amounted to 4.8%. the unemployment rate in aktobe region amounted to 4.8 % in 2015 .
Note that revenues to the local budget increased by 6%.
the capacity of the whitewash port is planned to be increased to 21 million tons per year.
As part of the projects of start-up entrepreneurs, 14 new jobs will be created.
This year, within the framework of public-private partnership, 4 kindergartens are being built.
In order to maintain jobs in existing enterprises, 5569 memoranda have been concluded. 5569 tripartite memoranda were signed in order to preserve jobs in the existing companies .
Due to the fact that we are responsible for vocational education, we work with 10 partner colleges.
In 2015, it is planned to consolidate positions on the basis of a grade in the companies of the fund.
40 citizens applied to the Eurasian youth school from three countries.
According to him, 70% of the delegation will change in travel.
In the future, it is planned to bring up to 3 thousand cattle.
Zhanaozen today has 22 public 16 private kindergartens.
Experts examined 7,055 people on various issues.
As it became known earlier, out of 127 candidates, seven representatives of nationalities.
Currently, there are 1,592 employers using individual entrepreneurs in Kazakhstan.
To date, there are 628 vacant government posts.
According to A. Peruashev, the average age of candidates is 46 years.
only in view of the 2014 crisis, its volume decreased.
40 materials relating to monitoring activities were provided to law enforcement agencies.
to date, their composition on the list varies by 60%.
As it became known, 30 citizens nominated for maslikhats.
In February, the population acquired $277 million in foreign currency.
Now 20 km of cement concrete coating have been sold.
The Ekyu/Diakb mission officially began monitoring the elections of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 17.
100 steps "59 new law will prepare a new institutional pillar of the state.
29% - a large share of investments in the agro-industrial complex (44.2 billion tenge).
in most cases, 1 billion 127 million tenge will be allocated for the construction of housing in social facilities.
In 2015, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan joined it.
In 2015, 25 cases were registered, per 100 thousand population - 0.14
Chairman of the Central Election Commission of Kazakhstan K. Turgankulov sent invitations to the 1st heads of election commissions of 18 states.	cec chairman kuandyk turgankulov invited 18 foreign countries .	3,59
Recall that early parliamentary elections were approved by presidential decree on March 20.	recall , the early parliamentary elections scheduled on march 20 .	3,59
In 2015-2019, it is planned to introduce 10 projects worth 72 billion tenge with the creation of 440 jobs.
500 thousand tenge will be coordinated for each innovation industry. "
According to the results of these events, 75 people were employed.
87 countries and 15 international organizations confirmed their participation in the exhibition.
the number of precinct commissions 697, district commissions 217 and regional commissions 15. the number of commissions - 697 district election commissions , 217 regional , and 15 territorial .
According to the Mayor's Office, the cost of the project "kazakhstan de li optoelectronics" LLP is 4 billion tenge.
legalized 47 of objects and securities in the amount of KZT 1,176,5 m.
this packaging of containers, 65% of products are sold in the CIS and foreign markets.
In addition, 3 billion tenge was allocated for the medium and current repair of roads.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs registered an additional 147 representatives of foreign gardens.
mostly 20-30 hectares of land are allocated for every 11 districts.
we annually introduce 9 million square meters of housing.
this is 10% higher than forecast, "the report said.
It should be noted that as of December 31, 2014, 820 children were born in Kazakhstan.
85% are citizens of Kazakhstan, 15% are foreigners.
then I was a member of the working group of the Senate of Parliament, was among the 10 deputies considering this legislation.
62 investment projects worth 181 billion tenge are being implemented in industrial park No. 1. nowadays the industrial park № 1 implements 62 investment projects with a total investment volume 181 billion tenge .
The total cost of the project is 30 billion tenge, "said Erball Danagulov.
According to the Minister of Finance, on February 20 a corresponding bill will be developed.
The decision shall take effect after 30 calendar days.
The factory was launched in 2013, located in the Sairam district.
As of February 11, 2016, 6 party lists were put forward in the Central Election Commission.
On September 1, 2014, the reception of applications for legalization began. since september 1 , 2014 documents have been received for legalization of property in accordance with the law .
According to him, in 2015 the volume of industrial production in the region exceeded 189 billion tenge.
This made it possible to create 10 thousand jobs, "the head of state said.
this holiday was first celebrated 20 years ago, May 1, 1996.
In 2014, our company received a soft loan at 6%. in 2014 , the company received a 6 % loan .
According to him, in May alone 300 billion tenge was transferred to the bank escape.
in general, republican budget expenditures will increase by 600 billion tenge depending on the approved volume. in general , the republican budget expenditure will grow to 600 billion tenge .
And most importantly - the plan of the nation "100 concrete steps."
legalized 47 of objects and securities in the amount of 1,176,5 million tenge, "- said in a statement.
we settled on important sectors of the economy, we chose 10 areas. we have chosen 10 most important destinations : metallurgy , machinery , chemicals , petrochemicals , building materials , packaging , food processing and others .
legalized 47 of objects and securities in the amount of KZT 1,176,5 m.
legalized 51 object and securities in the amount of 1,716,4 million tenge.
legalized 54 of object and securities in the amount of 1,722,5 million tenge.
143 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the project from the republican and regional budgets.
the share of small and medium-sized businesses (SMEs) in lending is 87%.
this will increase investment volume of Kazakhstan projects by more than 65%.
194.7 million tenge was allocated from the budget for the construction of a multi-storey building, 42 million tenge was allocated from the local budget.
In 2015, the world university ranking was published.
of which 57 were nominated, 36 people were nominated for the maslikhat of Taraz, of which 8 were registered.
According to forecasts, the project will be completed by 2020, "said the investor.
In 2015, the number of more than 2 thousand prisoners decreased. in 2015 , the number of persons in custody decreased by more than 2 thousand , " - said i. merkel .
According to the results of optimization, budget savings amounted to 1 billion tenge, "said a. Myrzakhmetov.
Early elections at the meeting are scheduled for March 20, 2016, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
97 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes by the Real Estate Fund, "he said.
this is 7% - impairment and added another 2%.
In 2016, the Development Fund allocated 24 billion tenge for the program of targeted financing of the regions.
Total cost of Iasi-nan LLP project located in the district center is 300 million tenge.
the new initiative will save 380 billion tenge a year.
70% of public councils are representatives of civil society.
The subregional association comprises 25 independent States of the region.
Kazneft increased productivity by 1% compared to last year.
In general, the program will create 19 thousand jobs, "said Zhanguzarov.
- As you know, we completed the first stage - the nomination of candidates ended on February 8.
2 . head of the "political party" Unity "Kozhamkulov murat akimkhanovich
A further 42 new schools will be constructed through a national fund.
About 2 million people are expected to visit the exhibition.
The agreement was signed by the defense ministers of the two countries on June 24, 2015 in the capital. the agreement was signed in astana on june 24 , 2015 by the ministers of defence of the two countries .
It is expected that 200 new jobs will be created under the project.
4 million 400 thousand women work in the country's economy - this is 49% of the population.
It is worth noting that last year 2 dairy farms worth 227 million tenge were opened.
Since 2015, the capital has been the fourth donor of the republican budget. since 2015 astana has become one of four donors of the republican budget .
the design capacity of the plant is 6 thousand square meters. m of rubber tiles per year.
The event is scheduled for the main date of the Astana Economic Forum, May 25, 2016.
The total cost of the new enterprise is $200 million.
4 . Abdrahmanov - President of the republican newspaper Sovereign Kazakhstan
In addition, the budget code will be supplemented by March 2016.
As of March 1 of this year, Kazakhstan has 1.9 million pensioners.
For example, in December 2015, the starbucks coffee chain opened in Almaty.
About 20 billion tenge was received by the local budget at the expense of 107 communal property.
In 2015, Almaty tech garden classes began to work in the innovation sector.
15 . Plant for the production of diesel engines gevo LLP "Capital diesel service"
Under the project to support the opening of a new profession, 26 young people were trained.
Note that the investment group of the group in 2015-2017 optimized 633 billion tenge.
Vladimir Putin also thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his visit to Moscow on May 9.
Tickets will be available until February 1, 2017, "said R. Islam.
64 candidates for deputies of the maslikhat of all levels were registered, "said A. Surkhanov.
we registered 52 major projects totaling $24 billion.
today the plant employs 130 workers, most of whom are women. nowadays the plant employs 130 workers , mostly women .
Kazakhstan is the 4th largest market of 36 markets. now kazakhstan is our fourth largest market of 36 markets with which we operate .
nutritional sites - 177 thousand animals, "he said."
For 4 months of this year, this figure amounted to 31.9 billion kWh.
3 . send this resolution to the regional, metropolitan and Almaty city election commissions.
This year, the construction of a concert hall with 1,200 seats and a regional museum of local history will begin.
they will begin to work on January 1, 2016, as we planned.
each new enterprise annually produces products for an average of 81 billion tenge.
Since 2014, it has been preparing gold bars to the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
48 meetings were held, the work of the national commission is under the personal control of the head of state.
For 18 years, the council has been discussing a number of topical, important issues. over 18 years of existence , our board discussed a great number of important issues .
As the head of the region noted, this year 700 apartments were commissioned in the regional center.
now the Plan of the Nation "100 concrete steps" is being implemented.
affordable housing - 2020 "29 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of housing.
property in the region of the republic amounted to 687 billion tenge, foreign property - 2 billion tenge.
Thus, Afghanistan reduced tariffs on Kazakhstan grain by 5%.
Such decoration will be decorated with 500 flowers, "the department said.
from the first year, 20% of subjects are taught in the second language. from the first course no less than 20 % of the subjects will be taught in the second language .
It is worth noting that this company has been producing aluminum profiles since 2014.
Aktobe has 120 preschool institutions with 22,120 places.
the number of planned projects in the region 162 and 8 republican projects. in regions there are 162 planned projects and 8 national ones .
As Abenov noted, 2015 is full of anniversary dates.
As of February 8, 2016, 6 party lists were put forward to the CEC.
This year it is planned to launch another 3 additional projects.
On March 2, Nursultan Nazarbayev will receive heads of foreign diplomatic missions registered in Kazakhstan.
Also in 2017, it is planned to complete the construction of 6 compressor stations.
in 2015 alone, 91 million tenge worth of medical equipment was purchased.
lighting installation at one facility is 50 thousand tenge per month. illumination of a building will cost 50 thousand tenge per month .
about $50 million was raised by kazgeology over 4 years. for 4 years " kazgeologiya " attracted about $ 50 million .
Elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan were approved on March 20, 2016.
according to the architectural design, the mosque has several towers 75 meters high.
at the first stage, the plant is supposed to produce 170 thousand tons of ferroglycoalumen per year.
every hour 45 or 400 thousand children a year are born in the country.
The products will be put on the market in 2017. "
investments in the implementation of the project 440 million tenge, "- said in a statement.
Since 2013, the Kazakh-Danish-German organization has developed a solar park.
In 2016, the implementation of major projects in the oil and gas sector will continue. in 2016 we will continue the implementation of major projects in the oil and gas sector .
they must submit lists to the district commission by February 28.
The area of ​ ​ the oil mill is about 8 hectares.
Recall that this year the "golden quality" was 10 years old.
In 2015, 10 tons of gold and 5 tons of silver were handed over.
district election commissions registered 1,096 candidates for deputies of maslikhats.
more than 10 thousand people work on construction work annually. every day 10 thousand people work at the construction sites .
In 2015, the Kazakhstan holding opened 15 car centers in 11 cities of Russia.
On May 27, a regular meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled.
to date, the average pension in the republic is 54 thousand tenge.
Despite the difficult economic situation, today 40 companies are taking part in our exhibition. despite the difficult economic conditions , now 40 companies participate in our show .
it is planned to attract 210 people to this cooperative, "said N.Nurzhigitov.
Since 2017, we have been studying in 16 specialties, "he said.
As a result, on March 20, deputies will be elected to the Majilis and Maslikhats.
In 2009, the Czech Republic included Kazakhstan among the 12 priority trading partners.
Recently, 80 bills have been adopted, which have created a legislative framework for the implementation of institutional reforms.
The housing construction plan for 2015 was completed by 112.7%.
These are the main options for entering 30 countries.
for us, the morning of the new era was December 16, 1991.
for us, the morning of the new era was December 16, 1991.
On March 21, we will summarize the Shu, "said the head of the mission.
Over the past 300 days, a number of positive results can be observed.
On March 4, each voter can check themselves from the inside.
our group joined the "eternal country" on February 29.
As you know, in 2017 the international exhibition Expo-2017 will be held. you know that in 2017 astana will host the international exhibition expo-2017 .
The Day of Culture and Art Workers in Kazakhstan is celebrated annually on May 21.
Until 2007, he worked as chairman of the Senate.
Since 2015, we have changed the rules for admission to school. since 2015 we have changed the admission rules .
The next CIS meeting will be held on October 28, 2016 in Minsk.
To date, 60 people and 31 equipment are involved in the construction of the project.
10 more projects worth 700 million tenge.
14 applications for the title were considered at the meeting of the tender commission.
According to him, 78 amendments have now been submitted to the working group.
4 . Kuanyshev, Deputy Chairman of the Unity Party
In 2010, he highly appreciated the share of Kazakhstan during the chairmanship of the Ecu.
more than 3 thousand families received keys to new apartments.
about 3 thousand volunteers are involved in the organization of competitions.
This year, the brick factory produces 3.7 million pieces of brick for 185 million tenge.
For 20 years, the association has implemented hundreds of socially significant projects.
Recall that these tools were put into effect on February 25.
Over the years, 180 important projects worth more than Euro1 million have been funded.
In general, 190 million tenge was allocated from the budget for the construction of this medical institution.
according to official statistics, 367 thousand people work in unfavourable conditions. there are 367 thousand people working in hazardous conditions .
823 flight shifts were completed according to the flight training plan.
And our churches abroad celebrate January 25th.
already the range of necessary products is 12 thousand goods.
Since 2016, one window will be available to all investors.
As you know, financial support will be provided in the amount of 4 thousand dollars.
Currently, 34 countries have confirmed their participation and have undergone online registration.
a year ago, according to the results of the presidential election, 5 institutional reforms were adopted. one year ago , 5 institutional reforms were supported .
65 polling stations were established in 51 foreign countries under the chairmanship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
four units are a total of 24 thousand full-time people.
we strive to ensure 100% coverage of children in preschool education.
29 women were elected to the new composition, which is 27.1%.
Governor's Office of the region will allocate 200 million tenge, Development Fund - 400 million tenge.
Over 25 years of independence, Kazakhstan has achieved significant success.
Governor's Office of the region will allocate 100 million tenge for this, and "development" - 200 million tenge.
It is expected that more than 2 million participants will visit the exhibition.
3 hectares of land are allocated for these purposes today.
all participants in the "green events" covered 19 metropolitan routes.
According to the scientist, many moments of the 1916 uprising were changed.
24 years in the history of many countries is a moment. in the history of many countries 24 years are the moment .
the bill provides for amendments to 12 legislative acts.
As for the manufacturing industry, growth was recorded by 9%.
Today, 8 multi-storey buildings are being built here. nowadays the construction of 8 houses is carried out , " the mayor said .
the first stage ended 100% - the water area was closed.
kazagro consumers amount to 49 thousand borrowers.
We are very glad that in 2017 the universiade will be held in Alma-Ata. "
in Karaganda, the construction of 200 beds of a children's multidisciplinary hospital is ongoing.
To date, the share of SMEs in the capital has reached 61%.
to date, work at each facility has been completed by 70% - 80%.
2 . Abdi Ibrahim Global Farm Pharmaceutical Plant
During the fair, 1386 people were registered who arrived in search of work.
first of all, it is planned to create 4 thousand jobs.
I instruct the government to introduce such types of social assistance since 2017.
During the festival, 9 film productions of famous Kazakhstani film directors were shown.
During this time, more than 1,500 metropolitan children rest here.
Thus, the area of ​ ​ industrial zones is 70%.
In 2016, it is planned to invest about 98 billion tenge, in 2017 - 63 billion tenge.
in total, 12 thousand children from North Kazakhstan schools took part in the game.
and in the village of Kyzylzharma works were carried out in the amount of 1 billion 432 million tenge.
in this case, the rate for the final borrower is 9 percent.
secondly, 3 million hectares of unused land will be transferred to farmers.
The people's representatives published their statements on January 13.
4 projects were implemented on health last year.
Today, the number of certificates received is 5,306 people.
The Commission approved 16 projects totaling 30 million tenge.
Since 1999, the ecu/diakb mission will control the 9th elections in Kazakhstan.
You know that 59 laws on institutional reforms were passed last year.
For the period from June 2014 to March 2016, 169 facilities are subject to privatization.
It is planned that the train will stop at 74 stations in Kazakhstan.
In 2016, the company plans to build several more kindergartens.
7 . Nurumov - Chairman of the Republican Uighur Ethnocultural Center
the company produces 12 tons of pisticides and herbicides with a capacity of per year.
Currently, dual education has been introduced in 348 colleges.
In 2013, 25 emergency houses were registered in Kyzylorda.
According to him, the company plans to export 60% of products to Russia.
For the period from June 2014 to April 2016, 210 objects are in privatization.
The document comes into force on January 1, 2016.
The construction of the naval pier is planned to be completed at the end of 2016.
the new poultry farm will provide jobs for 100 people.
More than 90% of projects were implemented at the expense of private business.
By the end of the year, 100 countries will confirm their participation in the exhibition. by the end of the year , we expect more than 100 countries to confirm their participation , there is no doubt .
A large roof and a 50-meter table were arranged.
The study covered 14 regions and cities of the capital, Almaty.
production occupies 2 hectares in an industrial park. the plant is located on 2 hectares land in the industrial park .
According to B. Sagintayev, 62 people took part in the meeting today.
the introduction of the plant provided 27 jobs.
last year, the wheat harvest was 21 centners per hectare.
in the industrial park, the enterprise covers an area of ​ ​ 2 hectares. the production occupies 2 hectares of land in the industrial park .
Thus, deliveries of electric locomotives will continue in 2018 and 2019.
In 2012, almost 12 proposals were implemented.
In general, 2015 left good memories for me.
The agreement was signed on February 23, 2011 in Prague.
It is expected that about 15 thousand spectators will attend the Universiade.
According to him, this year 769 people will be covered by these types of assistance.
and coach V. Nu received a financial premium of 1 million tenge.
In general, 110 polling stations are planned to be covered in the republic.
as a result, the number of waiting lists decreased by 17%.
This year, 1,074 election commissions will operate.
The plan of the nation is Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.
the total cost of the project, created from own funds and external investments - 270 million tenge.
An apartment-type hostel for 500 people was opened in 2015.
This year, 541 enterprises from all regions of the republic took part in the competition.
A total of 4,0050 people took part, "said Yuri Cherkasy.
Recall that the head of state signed a decree on holding early elections to the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and maslikhats of all levels on March 20, 2016.
Today you helped 328 people, conducted an examination.
it took 3 years to create the grouping.
Thus, 11 industrial zones have been created in the region.
We plan to conclude agreements with another 12 countries.
at the same time, more than 24 thousand jobs were created.
Born in 1977 in the Karaganda region.
in total, 11 airports will be combined in the management company group.
On the territory of the university there is a landscaped hostel for 306 apartments.
Another 17 events are planned to be held before the end of the year.
today more than 38 thousand inhabitants live in the city.	there are 38 thousand people in the city .	3,87
5 thousand jobs were created due to investment projects, "said A. Yessimov.
In the period from June 2014 to April 2016, 24 objects are planned for sale.
productivity growth of more than 60%.
only one workshop produces 250 liters of milk per day.
of these, 30 laws were developed at the initiative of deputies of parliament.
karaganda invest 2016 "will become a platform for effective dialogue between business and the state.
In the "100 steps" there are precisely these programs, that is, our strategic goals are clearly indicated.
The construction of the hospital was carried out as part of the project "100 schools, 100 hospitals."
Israeli project with a Kazakhstani share of 75%
The opening of the facility allowed to create 20 jobs.
however, there is a transitional period until 2021.
As you know, on June 28, voting will begin on the UN Security Council.
The site will be opened in 12 languages, "- said K. pockets.
On January 1, these laws entered into force.
the average monthly figure since the beginning of the year amounted to 160 billion tenge.
More than 40 thousand criminal cases were also considered.
16 nationalities were nominated.	among the nominated candidates there are 16 nationalities .	3,89
370 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget to support residents who want to open a profession and independently find employment in one Mughalzhar district.	for that the regional budget allocated 370 million tenge .	3,89
At the end of 2015, the volume of production of the enterprise increased.	at the end of 2015 the production of the factory was increased .	3,89
33 candidates nominated by the party were deputies of the Majilis of Parliament.	33 candidates were deputies of the majilis of the parliament earlier .	3,89
Thanks to the regional development program, 2 kindergartens and a rehabilitation center were built.	thanks to the program of regions development , 2 kindergartens and the rehabilitation center was built ,  - the mayor added .
the unemployment rate decreased by 5%, "the minister said.
11 projects were implemented, 200 jobs were created.
The mining and gold refinery was commissioned in Astana in 2013.
the new workshop can produce more than 20 thousand tons of products per year.
On February 26, the head of state will meet with the President of the Egyptian Arab Republic Abdel Fattah.
8 million people or 45% of the country's inhabitants live in the village. about 8 million people , or 45 % of the population lives in rural areas .
On April 15, Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the Uzbek republic, where the president will meet with Islam.
The session is scheduled for May 25, 2016, the main day of the Astana Economic Forum.
4 . control over the implementation of this decree shall be entrusted to the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2015 went down in history as a migration crisis in Europe. 2015 went down in the history as the year of the large-scale migrational crisis that originated in europe .
2016 - 1 project for a total amount of 36.5 million tenge.
a total of 10 countries and the International Renewable Energy Agency (irena).
74,376 objects, securities and money worth 576.5 billion tenge were legalized.
76,931 objects, securities and money worth 614.9 billion tenge were legalized.
77,857 objects, securities and money worth 625.7 billion tenge were legalized.
79,214 objects, securities and money worth KZT632.6 bn were legalized.
In 2014, there were 88 schools, in 2015 their number reached 94.
this is 4% less than last year, "he said.
Within the framework of the development program of the city of Semey for 2011-2015, 2 investment projects are provided.
launch of a new plant will create 105 new jobs
this year it is planned to put into operation about 400 thousand square meters. this year it is planned to introduce about 400 thousand square meters of housing .
The opening of this plant will create 200 jobs, 50 of which have already been opened.
we produce 20 million tons of grain crops per year, "said E. Muratov.
125 million tenge is allocated from the regional budget for these purposes.
2016 was marked in Lokomotiv by the year of the driver.
Since the beginning of the year, 1,478 people have been employed by the employment center of Astana Mayor's Office.
in Karatalsky district, six milk receiving points were opened around the Ushtobe Aydyn dairy plant, with which 30 farms work.
in general, 5 production zones were installed in the region.
This year investments in housing amounted to 123,575,8 million tenge.
According to the head of state, 900 new enterprises have been built in five years.
the first graduates will graduate next year, their number is 124 people. the first graduates will be next year , the number will be 124 people .
In 2015, 108 projects worth 6 billion tenge were approved.
During the meeting, the head of state heard the report of the National Bank for 2015.
In 2015, the volume of investments in the agricultural sector amounted to 167 billion tenge.
the company plans to invest 10 billion tenge in the implementation of the project.
In 2002, we opened the Zhanaozensky Dairy Plant.
the total prize fund is 6 million tenge. "
this year, the total flight of aviation increased by 5%.
December 4 exhibition in the capital. "
73 thousand companies have been opened through egov since 2013.
In the nuclear security index report, countries are divided into two groups: in one of them 24 countries.
in this regard, it is possible to irrigate 100 thousand hectares.
In order to implement 100 steps, 82 laws were adopted.
The main finished product has been on the market since April 2015.
currently, Kazakh courts are considering 1 million cases a year. currently , the kazakh courts handle more than 1 million cases per year .
It was opened in the capital on December 31, 2013.
In general, in the system we plan to reduce 100 staff units. in general , we planned to cut about 100 staff members .
there are 7 people in the commission, "said M. Okhendovsky.
Over the years, Kazakhstan has built 1,300 health facilities. over the years kazakhstan has built 1300 health facilities .
Representatives of 100 countries and 10 international organizations will take part in it.
46 per cent of cases were heard by the courts as soon as possible. in fact , 46 % of the cases are considered by judges in a short time .
In 2015, the industry produced products worth 668.5 billion tenge.
as a result, we found ourselves in the crisis of the 1990s and 2008.
In addition, 199 polling stations have been established in the region.
In total, 127 people came out of the party list to deputies of the majilis of the parliament.
In 2016, the share amounted to 2121 tenge (in 2015 - 1982 tenge).
accounts receivable from suppliers to the budget amounted to 207 billion tenge.
More recently, 100 Indian companies have been operating in Kazakhstan.
The Eurasian Economic Community Anti-Crisis Fund was established in 2009. eurasec anti-crisis fund was established in 2009 .
efficiency among them "Business Roadmap - 2020."
In 2015, the World Bank project "Modernization of Tzhb" was completed.
I have lived in Kazakhstan with my family for more than 6 years. i have been living in kazakhstan for 6 years with my family .
On an area of ​ ​ 8 thousand square meters, 30 thousand items of goods were exhibited.
817 foreign observers will monitor the elections.
3 . Yuri Tymoshenko - Member of the Majilis of Parliament
in total, 1200 applications were received on the sketch of the state flag.
1 . who is the affair - member of the Majilis
9 . Mikayelyan is the chairman of Armenian ethnocultural associations.
2 . Ahmed Muradov - Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the v convocation
The first report enabling the business of agriculture was published on January 28, 2016.
In 2013 and 2014, cameco produced 10,700 and 10,570 tons of uranium.
In 2015, 104 people received state support.
Over the first five-year period, 6 cement plants were created in a "dry way."
they consist of 203 candidates, 10 representatives of nationalities.
relative, that figure was 25 per cent.
The project for 122 million tenge provides permanent employment for 15 people.
According to him, the fund brings 94 million dollars in profit.
More than 10 thousand stands from 185 countries were presented.
Today, 10 investors will be awarded, who this year demonstrated their investment activity. today 10 investors will be awarded .
It is known that on December 1, 1991, popular presidential elections were held.
through kazagro Kostanay farmers should receive 11 billion tenge.
The growth of wool in the East Kazakhstan region amounted to 7%.
100 specific steps - the main course in the manual.
Kazakhstan is trying to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world. kazakhstan wants to enter the top 30 most advanced competitive countries .
The professional concept is presented in 100 concrete steps.
Children aged 3 years and older made up 95.6%.
90% of German investments were invested in the non-oil sector of Kazakhstan.
In 2015, we, together with the Institute of Archeology, created an exposition. in 2015 , we conducted a joint expedition with the institute of archaeology .
Chinese citizens predominate among 15%.
Representatives of 100 countries are expected to participate in the event.
Over 25 years, our republic has achieved great success. during 25 years our country has achieved great heights .
the company spills oil in 1 and 5 liters.
It is expected that 2 million people will take part in the exhibition.
8 . Production of finished textiles of Mir bt LLP
In 2015, 157 schools were built and commissioned. 157 schools were built and commissioned in 2015 .
the poultry farm will supply products to the market in 2016. poultry will start delivering products to market by the end of 2016 .
early elections to the Majilis were scheduled for March 20, 2016.
A total of 15 thousand liters of oil were produced in 2015.
5 . Vladimir Bozhko - Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan
every month the plant produces 13 thousand. Reduced gas.
19 devices were installed during the reporting period, 4 were installed.
80% of the enterprise's products will be exported to China.
The meeting was attended by 107 deputies and 45 senators.
the capacity of the plant is 18 thousand tons of metal waste per year.
28 people will be employed in the implementation of the project.
1 . Appoint an Investment Ombudsman as a safe haven.
a mission has been organized and 293 observers are currently accredited. the mission is almost formed , in total , 293 observers have been accredited .
according to their methods, 19 reforms in 7 areas.
In 2015, 345 billion tenge was used for the construction and maintenance of roads. 345 billion tenge was used for the construction of roads and their maintenance last year .
In 2015, the Eurasian integration project moved to a qualitative level. in 2015 , the eurasian integration project started a new stage .
The mission will be important, the observer will consist of 300 people.
this is a 16% reduction in the debt of our portfolio companies.
today the association unites about 15 thousand women.
as a result, more than 81 million tenge was received from paid activities.
He will take office on January 1, 2016.
the glass factory will be launched in the first half of 2017.
Equipment and installation of process equipment is scheduled for June-July 2016.
the registration process will be completed on February 19 according to the schedule.
141 teams from 34 universities took part in the universiade.
It appeared on the Internet on July 28, 2015.
all 11 steps entrusted to the Supreme Court have been implemented.
He has been working in our country for 5 years.
Over 25 years, about 7 million small Kazakhstanis were born.
manufactured products will have Kazakhstan content 100%.
As you know, 30 companies operate in the republic.
Then the program "100 hospitals - 100" was launched.
today, 500 women are gathered in this hall. there are more than 500 women in the house .
The ministry keeps gas prices at 2015.
To date, more than 20 thousand jobs have been created. More than than 20 thousand jobs have been created.
the second and third places were taken by 22 railway enterprises.
total length of curvilinear bars is 263,056 p.p.
20 jobs were created for the residents of the Masanchi village.
Last year, 1 million 300 thousand foreigners visited the country.
currently provides about 25%.
Since 2013, the prison population has decreased by 21%.
To date, 70% of promises have already been fulfilled.
the checkpoint is located 20 km from the border. the checkpoint is located 20 km from the actual border .
today, more than 212 thousand entrepreneurs have been supported on their basis.
We allocated more than 10 billion tenge for the implementation of this program.
The memorandum will be implemented by the end of 2016.
the new oncology clinic is designed for 300 visits per shift.
In 2016, an assessment of the professional activities of 1,220 judges will be carried out.
In 2015, the astra bus mobile application was introduced.
Since 2007, we have been engaged in the reclamation of medical waste. since 2007 we have utilized medical waste .
The project is expected to be fully launched in 2017.
Thus, in 2010, the transit phase was initiated.
Over the entire period, about 86 thousand citizens took advantage of the campaign.
The official opening of the restaurant in the capital will take place on March 8.
anodes are fired at a temperature of 1100 degrees Celsius.
Money worth 892 billion tenge has been legalized, "the minister said.
To date, 23 countries have signed the rules.
In 1998, a barrel of oil amounted to $8.5.
2 million jobs have been created, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
This year our country will have 25 years of independence. for 25 years , 965,000 people received citizenship .
Earlier on February 11, the standard met in Pavlodar.
3-year guarantee issued to institutions and equipment.
Wage increases of up to 40 per cent.
Kazkosmos for 7 years showed a significant result.
Recall that Kazakhstan joined the international worldskills international movement in 2014.
40 people are provided with permanent jobs.
its volume decreased by 27% and amounted to 57 billion tenge.
The company provides stable work for 52 people.
Among them 45 athletes from our region.
In 2018, the Capital International Financial Center will begin work.
300 new jobs will also be created.
Today, the capital's own revenues are 200 billion. Tenge.
5 . Advisor to the Rector to the Treasury of Paradise Murat Kumarula
Through the financing of the holding, more than 90 thousand jobs were covered and saved, "he said.
On May 31, a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council will be held in the capital.
200 people will be employed at the start of the plant.
Voting continues at 47 out of 65 polling stations.
28 km of roads are planned to be repaired in Karaganda.
district election commissions registered 54 candidates.
As a result, 80 new jobs are expected to be created.
In 2016, it is planned to open another 4 stf.
86% - health care, only 5% - industry.
In 2014, this list was supplemented by 8 monuments.
63% of the project is created at own expense.
In 2015, uranium production amounted to 23 thousand 805 tons. uranium production amounted to 23 thousand 805 tons in 2015 .
273 women are currently being treated in the perinatal center.
As a result, more than 11 thousand jobs will be created.
now the same course is taking place in 12 centers.
as a result, the detection of violations increased 49 times.
This year, 300 entrepreneurs previously took part in the competition.
- On November 30, the President of Kazakhstan sent a message to the people of Kazakhstan.
the number of students is more than 117 thousand people.
332 projects worth $2 billion were created in the existing regions.
In the labor competition, 12 railway enterprises led.
16 . Complex for production of barite concentrate of karajal operating LLP
tax revenues to the industrial park exceeded 36 billion tenge.
in total, about 20 sessions are planned within the forum.
as a result, this company provides 50% of Kazakhstan's demand.
21 mothers with many children received awards.
abroad - 50% of the total volume.
700 people received treatment in a sanatorium for health reasons.
Reconstruction of the bridge began in 2015.
Our godfather died at the age of 40 from alla.
today the workshop is open 8 hours a day.
Kazakhstan is a member of a group of 24 countries.
the total amount of investments in the project is 75 billion tenge.
a total of 526 polling stations.
On May 24, an Italian company plans to visit the capital.
water quality increased by 10 times compared to the previous one.
46 billion 149 million tenge of investments were attracted to the economy of the region.
Zhanaozensky city dairy plant was built in 1976.
This year Nazarbayev University has trained 50 new young specialists.
On December 16, 1991, Kazakhstan began its completely new history.	on december 16 , 1991 kazakhstan has begun its entirely new history .	4,29
The project was launched in the spring of 2010.	in 2010 in the framework of the  business roadmap-2020 " state program " aruana-2010 " started implementation of the project for the construction of the elevator-mill complex .
currently employs 500 people.
Nauryz in the city is celebrated in 14 places.
The volume of construction work increased by 109%.
in each of the three PSCs there are 3 operators.
98 people are admitted to the meeting according to party lists.
Last year, we invested about $800 million.
Note that the Mining Gold plant was launched in 2013.
that is, the city budget amounted to 103 billion 900 million tenge.
The agreement was adopted on December 10, 2009 in Berlin. the agreement was signed in berlin on december 10 , 2009 .
1655 applications worth 6 billion tenge were satisfied with investment subsidies, "the minister said.
Parliamentary elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
According to the Vice Minister, 270 thousand people will be covered by gas.
2 . Publish the appeal in the media.
we execute 4% more than the main plan. we are going ahead with the current plan by 4 % .
our national museum earned 104 million tenge in a month or two after the transition to a new state-owned enterprise, "he said.
On February 6, the President of Kazakhstan will meet with Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davitoglu.
today Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev has been awarded 39 foreign awards.
This agreement was concluded on August 15, 2014 in Moscow.
State symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan were adopted on June 4, 1992.
This year it is planned to receive 10 claims.
The Iranian & Kazakhstan Friendship Association has 5 thousand members.
130 nationalities live under one shanyrak in Kazakhstan. 130 nationalities live in kazakhstan under one shanyrak .
The protocol was signed on April 16, 2015 in Moscow.
27 of them were commissioned, 18 are under construction.
The total cost of investments is $10 million, "the report said.
sugar beets - Kazakhstan imports 92% of sugar beets.
this is 15% more than in the previous year.
their feature is the holding of March 21, 2016.
we have concluded such agreements with 11 countries. we have already signed similar agreements with 11 countries .
12 . wind power plant LLP "first wind power plant"
today, all 20 intellectual schools are built throughout the country.
The first meeting of the commission is scheduled for May 14 in the capital. the first meeting of the commission is expected to be on may 14 in astana .
The agreement was signed on February 23, 2011 in Prague. the agreement was signed in prague on february 23 , 2011 .
Traffic on one side of the bridge will be opened on July 1, 2016.
Now 52 projects are being implemented for $24 billion.
12 public councils have been established under the central government bodies. under the central state bodies there are 12 publiv councils formed .
On November 30, Nursultan Nazarbayev announces an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan.
The 25th anniversary of independence is an important historical date. 25 years of independence - is a very important date .
and 44% of imports.
The decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was issued on July 2, 2013.
today this industry provides 18 thousand jobs.
today in the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan 446 members. today , the assembly of people of kazakhstan consists of 446 members .
6 . Chairman of the Birlik party
- Today all pensions are indexed by 9%.
It is expected that revenues to the budget will amount to 1 billion tenge.
4 . Production of speedy dishes of rainbow LLP
In 2016, we will celebrate the 25th anniversary of independence. in 2016 we will celebrate the anniversary of our independence - 25 years .
We will elect 301 deputies.	also the chairwoman of the commission has said 301 deputies will be elected in the region .	4,43
It is expected that after the completion of construction, 196 jobs will be created here.	the construction will create 196 new jobs .	4,43
they included 23 candidates in the party list, "said a member of the CEC.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
Early elections will be held on March 20, 2016.
10 . production of paint materials of color international technologies LLP
the total amount of foreign deposits amounted to 600 million tenge.
in the region there are more than 120 dairy farms, 71 rural consumer cooperatives.
men - 693 (66%), women - 357 (34%).
2015 was a special year in the history of independent Kazakhstan.
More than 2 thousand applications were accepted for 11 thousand objects totaling 5.7 billion tenge, "he said.
its total estimated cost is 3 billion tenge.
The construction of the exhibition complex began on April 24, 2014.
investment in housing increased by 6%.
To date, 277 thousand kikm have been purchased. to date , 277 thousand heads were purchased .
106 applications from 92 companies were received for participation in the auction.
The agreement was signed on December 10, 2009 in Berlin.
48,914 objects worth 343.1 billion tenge were legalized.
The forum will be attended by 63 delegations from 41 countries.
By the end of last year, 80% of the work was completed.
17 . Eurochem-karatau ore extraction complex
In 2015, 20.2 thousand people took part in the project "Rise."
38 military attachés of foreign countries are accredited in Kazakhstan.
5 . Poultry farm LLP "Young Wing-2006"
the total cost of this project is 125 million tenge.
90 people take part in Kazakhstan.
- Now the CEC received 27 applications.
The program starts on March 15 and will end in May this year.
construction work increases by 14 times annually.
328 international checkpoints were covered by radiation control.
168 investors work in the manufacturing industry itself.
today their number is 1 million 200 thousand people.
3 people will be employed during the operation of the enterprise.
The forthcoming meeting is attended by 16 members of the commission.
In 2013, an affinity plant was launched in the capital.
Here, about 4 thousand people are covered by labor places.
On December 16, 1991, Kazakhstan began its completely new history. on december 16 , 1991 kazakhstan started a completely new history .
Thanks to this enterprise, 35 residential buildings are provided with permanent jobs.
208 million cubic trees in East Kazakhstan region. there are 208 million cubic meters of wood in east kazakhstan region .
the convention received evidence from abroad in 1970. the convention on taking evidence abroad was adopted in 1970 .
On 29 February, the working group held a regular meeting.
2016 - 8 projects for a total guarantee amount of 98.5 million tenge.
length 278, width 23 meters.
council members discussed about 40 documents.
the exposition is made in 8 pavilions and is located on an open area.
In 2016, the Republic of Armenia presides.
the area of ​ ​ the new center will be 1050 square meters.
the cost of the project is 45 billion tenge, "he said.
60 agreements on the development of the EAEU. in the development of the memorandum of association of the eaeu , more than 60 agreements were adopted .
We talked about dissolving 100 kg.
a total of 380 events are planned at the regional level.
30 events are planned to be held in Akmola region.
Kazakhstan joined the world banking group in 1992.
Of the Iranians, 164 companies work with us. 164 iranian companies are working here .
According to him, 24 colleges will be played at the event.
currently there are 450 employees in the hypermarket.
In 2014, Kazakhstan became its full member.
we have 130 national representatives.
2) create a commission on land reform;
The Ombudsman's Office participated in 212 national and 53 international events.
300 thousand people work at industry enterprises.
we have 34 doctors on the train. there are 34 doctors in the train .
the number of visits to doctors was 21,390.
51 polling stations will work in the city.
About 21 million people will be employed in forced labor.
75 countries confirmed their participation.
another 8 enterprises increased their work under the entrepreneur program.
the company has 33 years of experience in the international market.
Kazakhstan has provided assistance to Afghanistan for 13 years.
in total, it is planned to collect 400 tons of fruits per year.
the number of people working here is 100 people.
the international exhibition will be held in the capital for 3 months.
To date, the CEC has registered 301 observers. as of today , the cec accredited 301 observers .
today there are 29 Kazakh-Turkish lycées in Kazakhstan.
1,000 hectares are planted here per day.
70% of the necessary funds are allocated to them.
The construction of the project is planned to be completed in 2018.
On January 16, 2016, Iran lifted sanctions.
Chinese audience is more than 800 million viewers.
Under the employment roadmap, 790 microcredits worth 2 billion tenge were issued.
about 2 million tenge was spent on pre-design and design work.
It remains to complete the last 80 kilometers.
I announced the construction of 20 intellectual schools in Kazakhstan. i announced the construction of 20 intellectual schools in kazakhstan .
50% of the main building materials have been completed.
in Kazakhstan, the school year for first-graders is 33 weeks.
3,417 entrepreneurs received non-financial assistance.
at the initial stage, 20 people will be employed.
there are 818 polling stations in the region.
thousands of people will be able to take part in the elections. more than 430 thousand people will be able to vote during the elections .
9% increase in pension payments.
The total cost of the project is 900 million tenge.
Recall that elections in Kazakhstan will be held on March 20.
The Spartakiad was visited by more than 15 thousand spectators.
For 5 years, about 20-25 companies participated.
this movement was founded in Spain in 1946.
the rest is April 1st.
In 2016, the competition is held for the sixth time.
In our state, 5 institutional reforms are being implemented.
2015 was a significant year for our country. 2015 year is significant for the entire state .
the required pass is issued for a period of 3 years.
so 600 rose from the dollar to $13,000.
Young people from 72 countries of the world came to the forum.
Warranty reviewed within 5 business days.
There are 127 people on our party list.
If ratified, we can cooperate with 53 countries.
Rural People's Democratic Party - 2%
The plant began its work in 1903.
There are 25,000 people on duty today. today , 25 thousand people are worth waiting for the queue .
The district election commissions registered 28 candidates.
The construction of the student games is 80% complete. construction of the universiade venues has completed at 80 % .
23 military vessels and boats patrols.
The volume of investments last year amounted to 773 billion tenge.
today it produces 18 types of products.
These works will be carried out in 2016.
construction cost of the first stage of the greenhouse is 25 billion tenge.
350 public transport will be launched.	350 new public buses will be launched .	4,78
In 2015, kaznex invest organized 22 business forums.
this is 100 more scholarships than last year.
investment volume - 8 billion tenge.
the number of employees of the plant is 372 people.
200 new jobs will be created at the plant.
the total area is 7634 hectares.
On election day, 300 of our observers work.
The opening of the plant provided work for 25 people.
The project is scheduled to be completed on June 30, 2020.
Important elections are held at thousands of polling stations.
production capacity will be 3 thousand tons per year.
the implementation of the project will contribute to the creation of 105 new jobs.
18 . Bozshakol Mining and Processing Plant of Kazminerals bozhakol LLP.
Last year, 141 labor patents were issued. 141 thousand so-called labor patents were issued last year .
investment will amount to $100 million.	the total investment will be approximately around 100 million dollars .	4,81
December 1 in Kazakhstan is considered a day off.	december 1 - is a day off in kazakhstan .	4,82
The company was commissioned in June 2015.	the plant , which was commissioned in june 2015 , produces commercial brands of the world-known carbonated soft drinks .	4,82
6 political parties will take part in the upcoming elections.
6 . Broiler poultry farm "capital project ltd"
This year there are 1138 places open in kindergartens. 1138 places have been opened this year.
Industrial zones are being created in 13 regions of Kazakhstan. the industrial zones are created and established in 13 regions of kazakhstan .
452 thousand tenge are involved in the preschool construction institution.
the company produces 8 million tons of concentrate per year.
project implementation period is 4 years. project implementation period is 4 years .
7 . Production of wool products of "caspy lana atyrau" LLP
international transportation from Kazakhstan is carried out in 87 directions.
about 50 people were involved in the development of the parade suit. about 50 experts were involved .
In November 1998, he was appointed head of the department.
in our constituency there are 4 territories. our electoral district has 4 polls .
11 . rmz-shapagat house-building plant LLP
Kazakhstan joined the commission in November 2011.
Completion of construction and installation works is scheduled for October 2016.
applications are accepted until July 25 of this year.
participants in the process are 2 million people.
total investment amounted to 5 billion tenge.
total cost - 690 million tenge.
these elections will be held on March 21 this year.
The total cost of the project amounted to 911 million tenge.
Amendments were made to 3 codes and 7 laws.
30 billion tenge annually goes to the state budget.
Last year, 99 citizens were returned to us.
It is planned that the facility will be commissioned in 2017.
In 2015, the volume of construction amounted to 94 billion tenge.
There are 3 new companies involved in the country.
Last year, 2,385 patients were served.
More than 40 million young people are also unemployed.
As part of the project, 5 complexes will be implemented.
December 1 is the day of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan. december 1 - the day of the first president .
design capacity - 20 million liters of products per year.
The volume of investments in the project will be about 800 billion tenge.
More than 23% are women.
the number of participants is 990,021 people.
In connection with the opening of a new kindergarten, 30 new jobs were created.
1 . Until December 31, 2016:
In May 2016, it will become a led monitor.
Last year, only 50 people were selected.
500 people will take part in the construction of the facility.
in the repertoire of the collective 4 thousand works.
65 polling stations were organized abroad. there are 65 polling stations abroad .
- Your desire to Kazakhstanis in 2016?
the rate of remuneration is 10 percent per annum.
To date, 30 people are employed in them.
The world exhibition in the capital will last 3 months.
It is expected that the project will be opened in 2018.
now on an area of ​ ​ 17 combines. today , there are 17 harvesters .
8 events are planned for the current year.
Kazakhstan was represented by 3 athletes from Akmola region.
a total of 188 applications were received for selection.
30 people work in our LLP.
investment will amount to $100 million.
In 2016, the chairmanship of the eeo was transferred to Kazakhstan.
- mu started with 65 rabbit uterus.
our relationship has a 25-year history.
115 people are directed to social jobs.
31% were vaccinated in the region. 31 % have been sowed in the region .
the cost of the project is 20.0 million tenge, 3 people will be employed.
now we know 48 Turkic ethnic groups.
150 participants from 13 countries. the participants came from 13 countries , there are about 150 of them .
investment amounted to $5 million.
52,982 prohibited items were found.
Kazakhstan has been a member of xgto since 1995.
I bought 4 tickets for myself and my family.
loan term - up to 84 months.
They scheduled a press conference for February 22.
its length is 115 kilometers.
900 billion tenge was transferred, "the head of state said.
$35 million will be allocated for these projects.
the draft consists of 5 chapters and 33 articles.
Festive events continue at 14 sites of the city.
expenditures of the regional budget amounted to 99.9% and reached 200 billion tenge.
The volume of production amounted to 40 million tenge. the amount of all products - more than 40 million tenge .
The event is attended by specialists from 20 countries.
This indicator was met in 2015.
the height of tomato groups reaches 3 meters.
the total volume of investments is about 80 billion tenge.
1 . Petrochemical production for coke processing of Upnk-pv LLP
at the meeting, a list of members of the political council and political council consisting of 47 citizens was approved.
they included 301 people.
the plant produces 15 types of flour.
total cost of investments 256,722 million tenge.
The project is scheduled to be completed on December 31, 2020.
plant capacity 30 thousand products per year. power plant - 30 thousand pieces per year .
The auction will take place on May 20, 2016.
the average age is 43 years.
in addition, 65 jobs were created in this form.
there are 55 personal households, "he said."
200 producers will take part in the exhibition.
The event will last during 2016.
The complex will employ 40 people.
6 stops will be built along the road.
68% are women, 32% are men.
I provided permanent work for 22 citizens.
Exported products worth 1 trillion tenge. the products worth 1 trillion tenge have been already exported .
6 parties took part in these elections.
2015 is the second anniversary of industrialization
26 people work on the elevator.
59 legislative acts were drawn up in a few months.
20 thousand people are registered on our website.
the party list included 19 people.
for example, 64 countries are registered to participate in competitions.
134 women turned from a mammologist.	a mammalogy examined 134 women .	5,37
ekdb includes 36 countries.	the bank works in 36 countries .	5,37
742 residents received dental care.	dental care was provided to 742 residents .	5,39
150 people were employed here.	jobs are provided to 150 residents .	5,39
569 polling stations in the region.	the region has 569 polling stations .	5,40
More than a thousand employees are appointed.	more than 25 thousand employees are appointed .	5,40
the plant itself was registered in 2014.	the enterprise was registered in 2014 .	5,40
In addition, 8 jobs will be created.	8 people will be employed .	5,40
As a result, 456 km of roads were built.	as a result , 456 km of roads were built .	5,41
In addition, 6 jobs will be created.	it is planned to employ 6 persons .	5,41
In 2016, the chairmanship will be transferred to the Japanese.	in 2016 the conference will be hosted by japan .	5,41
The company employs 60 people.	the company employed 60 people .	5,41
The amount of the contract amounted to 573 million tenge.	the contract value amounted to more than 573 million tenge .	5,41
dental care was provided to 163 residents.	dental care has been provided to 163 residents .	5,43
the agenda consists of 14 issues.	the agenda includes 14 issues .	5,43
Among drug traffickers are 35 nationalities.	the candidates represent 35 nationalities .	5,43
the world exhibition will last 3 months.	expo will last for 3 months in astana .	5,44
The company has created 129 jobs.	the enterprise has created 129 jobs .	5,44
his investments amounted to 700 million tenge.	the investment amounted to about 700 million tenge .	5,49
the cost of costumes was estimated at 245 thousand tenge.
(Washington, D.C., March 31, 2016)
this is about 39%.
These are athletes from 15 countries.
In 2015, 2 projects were introduced.
More than a thousand graduates took part in the testing.
implementation of the project amounted to 4 billion tenge.
Senate hearings are scheduled for April 29.
total cost of the project is 12 million tenge.
it's 17,000 kids.
This year, 125 points were received by 19 graduates.
88 new jobs have been created.
there are 98 tank representatives on this list.
investment volume - 8 billion tenge.
The exhibition will last until July 20.
The project cost is 4 billion 700 thousand tenge.
last year their number was 5.
700 scholarships have been awarded this year. this year we allocate 700 scholarships .
s. Sydyks born in 1962. s.sydykov was born in 1962 .
project cost $213 million. the project cost is $ 213 million .
The project cost is 621 million tenge.
According to data to date, 1,594 patients have been registered in this institution.
385 jobs have been created.
competitions were held in 5 stages.
The project will attract 10 billion tenge of investments.
Wheelchairs for the disabled were also purchased at 58 stations.
Currently, 60 people work.
in the list of 22 applicants.
The volume of investments is 300 million tenge.
The competition consisted of 4 stages.
The project cost is 460 million tenge.
400 normative legal acts were approved.
in the list of candidates 35 people:
Parliament passed 80 laws.
They employed 6 people.
180 of them study medicine.
In 2015 - 79.4.
19 candidates were registered on the list:
70 people participate in the construction.
2 billion tenge was allocated for the project.
project cost is 664 million tenge.
The festival starts on April 5th.
The project was invested in the amount of 600 million tenge.
the council has 12 members.
The project is invested in the amount of 50 million tenge.
10 investment representatives.
The expo will last 93 days.
2 . Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
68 . suslov alexander
54 . lobster saparkhan
66 . smagul bakytbek
47 . macen baktii
72 . tleuchan bekbolat
80 laws have been passed.
34 . karataev fachriddin
40 . tornado karaken
52 . oleinik vasily
31 . imasheva snowflake
67 . asylbec resin
46 . mahambet mansurkhan
76 . Khamenov happy
83 . izmukhambets baktykozha
38 . Kainazarov valikhan
80 . Shipov gennady
37 . goats Evgeny
64 . simons sergey
69 . sultan's joy
48 . sculpture wing
43 . Kurman from the inside
49 . Muslim Caribai
84 . Yakovleva tatyana
56 . nxikbayev omarkhan
61 . Sabillani nurtai
50 . nurkin rat
75 . umbet satellite
78 . chirkov mikhail
22 . Ertaev happiness
59 . Platonic arthur
23 . jabagiev kozhakhan
39 . kanybekov saken
44 . kusain satellite
45 . Mayraevsky world
73 . Tinikeev mukhtar
27 . zharasov zhanat
60 . Pishembai holiday
63 . seidumanov satellite
32 . Isimbay gulmira
35 . cesebay fish
41 . Karakus flower
65 . A Sclar Novel
51 . nurmanbetova jamila
77 . Khituov branch
28 . zhylkyshiev bidield
36 . klimenko ivan
57 . Stebaevskaya sakena
62 . saparova aliya
21 . Erman mukhtar
33 . Kazan Pavel
74 . unzhakova irina
19 . Heralian word
58 . utemis shawkhat
70 . abai tasbulates
82 . Shchegel gleb
29 . Zvolsky Sergey
71 . iron murate
7 . ashimbayev maulen
26 . Jamal contribution
2 . amanzholov zauresh
20 . divine god
25 . cabiball jacupes
17 . duisebay Sunday
4 . Akhmetov trip
81 . shishigina olga
9 . balian zagipa
12 . bizhanov flower
18 . dyachenko sergey
42 . kozhakhmetov dream
14 . bull light
53 . Omarbekov zhanat
10 . berstan bekturgans
15 . daurenbaev amangelds
11 . of the Abdimanap Bekturgans
13 . marat bopazov
16 . dulatbek nurlan
1 . aisina mayra
24 . scattered anar
30 . ixanova flower
3 . aronic irina
55 . strong ospans
5 . charm happy
6 . abdirov nurlan
79 . sharapaev peter
8 . bazarbay pass
Industrialization for 2016
